Good afternoon. Last week, we set a goal of 200 million shots by day 100 of our administration — double the original goal that I had set. And to make that progress, over the last three days, we’ve had a record number of shots in arms with over 10 million shots recorded in the weekend. Over 10 million shots in three days — that would have been inconceivable in January. The progress we have made on vaccinating this country is a great American story. The federal government has stepped up, taken responsibility, and launched a massive federal vaccination program. Governors and mayors of both political parties — Republicans and Democrats — have stepped up as well. Our military, our National Guard, FEMA — they have all been incredible. Healthcare providers, community leaders from all walks of life — so many volunteers of all ages and backgrounds stepped up as well. And my fellow Americans, look at what we have done the past 10 weeks. No other country has come close: 100 million shots in less than 60 days, and now we’re moving on to the next 100 million shots in just 40 days. You’ve heard me say it many times before: Our progress on vaccination is a stunning example that there is nothing — nothing this country cannot do if we put our minds to it and we do it together. But as I’ve also said, I will always give you it straight — straight from the shoulder. Our work is far from over. The war against COVID-19 is far from won. This is deadly serious. We share the sentiment of Dr. Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC expressed earlier today: This is not the time to lessen our efforts. That’s what she said. We could still see a setback in the vaccination program. And most importantly, if we let our guard down now, we could see a virus getting worse, not better. You know, as many people as we have vaccinated, we still have more Americans left to go. You know, we will administer more shots in March than any country on Earth. But even so, we have to give more shots in April than we did in March. Because we’re in the life and death race for the virus that is spreading quickly with cases rising again. New variants are spreading. And sadly, some of the reckless behavior we’ve seen on television over the past few weeks means that more new cases are to come in the weeks ahead. With vaccines, there’s hope, which is a — which is a very good thing, to state the obvious. But people are let — are letting up on precautions, which is a very bad thing. Look, to this point, cases have fallen two thirds since I took office. Deaths have also fallen two thirds. But now cases are going back up and, in some states, deaths are as well. You know, we’re giving up hard-fought, hard-won gains. And as much as we are doing, America, it is time to do even more. All of us have to do our part, every one of us. So, let me start here: First, this week, thanks to my administration’s intensive work with vaccine manufacturers and distribution efforts, the amount of vaccines that are going to be available for vaccinators — vaccination sites will be a new record: 33 million doses of vaccine this week. By getting more vaccine supply to states, community health centers, and pharmacies, we can vaccinate the highest-risk Americans more quickly than we already are. And then — and then we make it possible to open up supplies for all adults and to try to beat the renewed spread of this virus. As a result, I’m also pleased to announce that we’re on track this week — just 10 weeks after I became President — to achieve nearly 75 percent of Americans over the age of 65 getting at least one vaccination shot. When I took office on January 20th, that number was 8 percent. It’s going to 75 percent. That’s a lot of grandparents who are now able to safely hug their grandchildren, and they couldn’t do so just a short time ago. And with the supply we’re releasing this week — just this week alone — there are more doors [sic] — there are more doses of vaccine available for seniors this week than any week thus far. So, seniors, please, if you have not gotten your shot yet, get it this week. Get it. Second, I’m reiterating my call for every governor, mayor, and local leader to maintain and reinstate the mask mandate. Please, this is not politics. Reinstate the mandate if you let it down. And business should require masks as well. The failure to take this virus seriously — precisely what got us in this mess in the first place — risks more cases and more dests [sic] — deaths. Look, as I do my part to accelerate the vaccine distribution and vaccinations, I need the American people to do their part as well. Mask up. Mask up. It’s a patriotic duty. It’s the only way we ever get back to normal — to cheer together in stadiums full of fans; to gather together on holidays again safely; go to graduations, weddings. Third, I announced on March 11th I’d direct every state, territory, and Tribe to open up their vaccinations to all adults no later than May 1. I issued that order because moving beyond priority groups to enable all adults to get vaccinated is critical to having a July 4th that’s closer to normal. I want this to come as quickly as possible. And I want to thank the governors — Democrats and Republicans — who have responded to this directive. In fact, the vast majority of governors have set open access dates even earlier than the deadline of May 1st. But in this race against a rapidly spreading virus, as fast as we are going, we need to go faster. So to make it easier for Americans to get vaccinated as the supply grows and vaccination eligibility expands, I’m directing my COVID team to ensure there is a vaccine site within 5 miles of 90 percent of all Americans by April 19th — three weeks from today. Look, we’re going to do this by growing from having 17,000 pharmacies giving out vaccination shots to nearly 40,000 pharmacies doing it within the next three weeks. That will more than double the number of pharmacies where you can go get vaccinated. But we aren’t stopping there. In the next three weeks, we’ll add 12 more federally run mass vaccination sites. Every day at these sites, tens of thousands of people are able to drive up, get a vaccine shot while in their car, and leave in less than an hour. And over 60 percent of the shots given at these sites goes to minority communities because they’re in minority communities. We have to reach out. They’re the ones most affected by the vacci- — by both the vaccine, but also by the pandemic. We’re also going to send more aid to states to expand the opening of more community vaccination sites — more vaccines, more sites, more vaccinators — all designed to speed our critical work. But we also need to make it easier for those who want shots but cannot access vaccination sites to get vaccinated. This is also where we’re focused on the seniors most immediately. While we have made incredible progress in starting to vaccinate nearly three quarters of our seniors and now putting vaccination sites within 5 miles of 90 percent of all Americans, that still isn’t enough as far as we’re concerned. We know that there are a number of seniors and people with disabilities who may be isolated and have lack of access to transportation, and there are community groups that can help. They’re trying to help now. So, our fourth announcement today is that I’m sending out millions of dollars, through the Department of Health and Human Service, to provide assistance, including transportation, so more vulnerable seniors and people with disabilities can get their shots because they get help to physically get there, to get the shot. Neighbors helping neighbors: What a truly American effort. We cannot let transportation be a barrier to any senior getting a vaccination. And so where does this put us? We’re making progress on vaccinations, but cases are rising and the virus is spreading in too many places still. That’s why, today, I’m taking these steps to make our American turnaround story a vac- — our vaccination program — move even faster. Thanks to all the work we’ve done these past 10 weeks, the added steps I’m announcing today — with them — I’m pleased to announce that at least 90 percent of all adults in this country will be eligible to be vaccinated by April the 19th, just three weeks from now, because we have the vaccines. For the vast, vast majority of adults, you won’t have to wait until May 1. You’ll be eligible for your shot on April 19th. Finally, 10 percent will be eligible no later than — the final 10 percent will be eligible no later than May 1. And as I just said, due to the steps we’re taking today, 90 percent of Americans will be within five miles of a location where they can get a shot as of April the 19th. So we’re moving toward “90/90” by April 19th. That is, by April 19, three weeks from today, 90 percent of adults — people over 18 and over — will be eligible get vaccinated. Ninety percent of all Americans will be living within five miles of a place they can get a shot. And, of course, it will take time for everyone to get their appointment. It’s a big country. And as fast as we’re going, and we still have a long way to go to finish this vaccination effort. In fact, we aren’t even there — we aren’t halfway yet. But being at 90/90 just three weeks from today should give hope to the country. Let me close with this: The progress we’re making is a significant testament to what we can do when we work together as Americans. But as I’ve always said, we still need everyone to do their part. We still are in a war with this deadly virus. And we’re bolstering our defenses, but this war is far from won. Together, we have so much to be proud of in the past 3 weeks — past more than 3 weeks; past 10 weeks. We also have so much to be sorrowful about. Nearly 1,000 Americans a day are still dying from COVID-19 as we approach 550,000 deaths in a single year. Until this country is vaccinated, each of us has to do our part. We have an obligation — a patriotic obligation: Wash your hands, stay socially distanced, wear a mask as recommended by the CDC, and get vaccinated. Get your friends and family vaccinated when you can help. Now is not the time to let down. Now is not the time to celebrate. It is time to do what we do best as a country: our duty, our jobs; take care of one another; and fight this to the finish. We can and will do this, but don’t let up now. Don’t let up now. Thank you. And may God protect our troops. Thank you very much. I just explained that, I think, thoroughly. I hope I did anyway. Thank you. Yes. I have, but I ain’t telling you. It’s terrible. It’s absolutely outrageous. And based on the reporting I’ve gotten, an awful lot of people have been killed totally unnecessarily. Sure, I am. Of course, I am. I’m the only one that’s ever gotten it passed, man. Everybody keeps wondering whether I cared about dealing with rational gun control. The only gun control legislation ever passed was mine. It’s going to happen again. Close. Close. Well, based on what I’m hearing, apparently people are letting their guard down. But I have — I’m having a meeting with the team tomorrow, and I’ll get a better sense. I gave up all sweets for Lent. You have no idea how hard it is for me. Ice cream. Well, we’re working on that now. We are putting in place a plan that I feel very confident about, and I don’t care what the other guy does. Thank you. Been concerned about that for years. Well, look, Mayor — can you hear me now? I truly apologize to everybody, especially on a Friday afternoon, as the Mayor said. I want to thank the Mayor for her leadership, and more importantly, I want to thank her for her friendship. And for everyone on this call, you should know that Keisha endorsed me, as I said, very early in my campaign, back when most folks didn’t think I had a chance. She stuck with me when things were bad and . But through it all, she believed in me, and I’m forever grateful. But maybe the person I should be thanking most is Keisha’s mom. Keisha often tells me stories about how her best polling source is her mom, and what her mom is hearing about at the bridge club every Saturday. Well, when Keisha’s mom said she believed in me, I guess that was good enough for Keisha. And just like she had my back, I have hers. And we need her, and Atlanta needs her. You know, we saw it just weeks after — just weeks after we found ourselves to the mass shooting. When the Vice Pres- — when I — when the Vice President and I traveled to Atlanta, we met with the Mayor and saw her strength keeping the city together, especially for the Asian Amer- — the Asian American community that remains in fear and is hurting right now. And we’ve seen her leadership during this pandemic — believing in science and leading a city that’s home to a tremendous public servant, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — the CDC. We saw her stand tall and speak out during the summer of protests and pain. And during the campaign that tested our very democracy, she was always there. So many of you stepped up as well. And if anyone ever doubted that voting matters, Georgia just proved that it did. If anyone ever wondered if one vote can make a difference, Georgia proved it 11,779 times. And if anyone ever wondered if voting can change a country, Georgia just proved that. And if you’re wondering whether Republican officials will finally stop their attacks on the right to vote and actually try and win over votes, they just proved yesterday they won’t. It’s America and what they’re doing — that it cannot stand So, above all, Keisha knows democracy is not just about winning elections. It’s about governing, making government work. It’s about making government work for working families, for the people who are — who are the backbone of this country. And that’s why we fought so hard to pass the American Rescue Plan. It’s making a difference. Just last week, we passed 100 million shots in arms in the first 58 days in office. We’re going to get 200 million in my first 100 days. That includes a $10 billion investment to make sure we reach the hardest-hit and highest- risk communities. And, yesterday, we reached 100 million checks for $1,400 into people’s pockets and their bank accounts. By the time this money is distributed, 88 percent of all adults and children in Georgia will receive such a check. That’s going to change their lives. The American Rescue Plan will cut child poverty literally in half, including for 171,000 Georgia children. It provides $4 billion for Georgia’s schoolchildren, in grades K through 12, to keep them open and keep them open safely. And one of the biggest things for Georgia and the Atlantic — and Atlanta: Georgia is now eligible for about $2 billion in expanded Medicaid. That means another 500,000 Georgians will be covered all across the state with Medicaid that they don’t have right now. And that’s on top of the lower premiums and expanded coverage, if you have a plan through Obamacare. Your state — the state of Georgia — will also get around $5 billion to make up for the lost revenues. Local governments will get around $3.5 billion. That’s going to make it possible to keep police officers, firefighters, teachers, first responders on the job, rather than have to lay them off because of a lack of funding. And who is going to deliver this help on the ground? The Mayor. The Mayor. But that’s just the beginning. And as we rescue the economy in the coming weeks, I’ll be laying out my vision for a Build Back Better plan to rebuild America’s own 21st century, modernizing our infrastructure — our transportation systems, our broadband systems, our water and power systems. And we’re going to make historic investments in research and development, and we’re going to create millions — and it’s not just me; it’s not just a Democratic think tank. Wall Street has pointed out millions of good-paying jobs here in America — manufacturing, clean energy, and so much more. Just manufacturing in general. A big piece of that, as the Mayor knows and as I promised on the campaign, is historic investment in historically Black colleges and universities to help the next generation of Black students get access to good-paying jobs now and in the future. We’re also going to invest in our families, making housing more affordable, and caregiving economy stronger for millions of Americans, mostly women and women of color who care for children and aging loved ones. And they deserve to be paid well. All this is going to help us outcompete the rest of the world, and it will depend on government being able to work for the American people. That’s why I need people like Keisha leading the way, and I really mean that. I’m going to close with this — I’ve kept you too long already: There is so much we can do if we do it together, if we stand together; if we once again believe and invest in science; if we stand up for justice and equality and the right of Americans to vote and have access to voting. And Keisha is leading our efforts as Vice Chair of the Democratic National Committee. You have to remember, we’re here to help all the people of this country, the bottom up and the middle out, not just those in the top few. Folks, if we do that, then there’s not a single solitary thing we can’t do if we do it together. So to Keisha and to all of you, I apologize for the mix -up. I’m not — I don’t want to be fastidious about making sure to do this. So I’m home, and we just got a little messed up here. But I truly — I truly apologize. And I — and again, let me thank all of you who — that we called on our contribution list, asking about Keisha coming through. She is the real deal. She’s bright. She’s honorable. She’s tough. She has great integrity. And it really matters that we have people like Keisha to . So, Keisha, I want to thank you as well for being my buddy. May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Have a good — have a good weekend. Thank you. Do I have — No — no, I don’t. I have theories, but I’m not a scientist. I’m going to wait until the scientific community makes that judgment. Well, we talked a lot about climate change. We talked a lot about the need also for Britain and the United States to — to stand together and deal with the whole notion of whether or not NATO stands together, whether we stand united, and whether or not I’d be able to come, and I hope I can, to the NATO meeting in — I think it’s in late June. So we talked about scheduling and when I come over and how we’d work that out. Well, there was full agreement. One of the things I suggested to do is — we talked about China and the competition they’re engaging in in the Belt and Road Initiative. And I suggested we should have, essentially, a similar initiative coming from the democratic states, helping those communities around the world that, in fact, need help. It’s really great. Not — not as strong as I was really thinking. Well, we’re working on that right now. We don’t know quite exactly what we can do at this point. The Justice Department is taking a look as well. Well, look, we’ll see. The question is whether or not — you know, you have to have 50 votes — 51 votes to have to win to be able to move the filibuster and any change in the filibuster. And right now, that doesn’t exist. That doesn’t exist. So, you know, look, I — the only thing I’ve been relatively good at in my long career in the Senate is figuring out when to move and when not to move. We got to have the votes. Pardon me? Well, we’re looking at that right now. We’re looking at what kind of authority I have relative to imported weapons, as well as whether or not I have any authority to — these new weapons that are being made by 3D equipment that aren’t registered as guns at all, there may be some latitude there as well. We have equipment and capacity that most countries don’t have, and we’re seeing what we can do — what help we can be. Thank you. I haven’t yet, but they know they’re invited. But I haven’t invited — I haven’t spoken to either one of them yet individually. I just got off the phone speaking with the British Prime Minister. And yesterday, I spoke with all the members of the EU. So — but I haven’t spoken to those two. Say again? It’s an atrocity. The idea — if you want any indication that it has nothing to do with fairness, nothing to do with decency — they passed a law saying you can’t provide water for people standing in line while they’re waiting to vote. You don’t need anything else to know that this is nothing but punitive design to keep people from voting. You can’t provide water for people about to vote? Give me a break. More Americans voted in the 2020 elections than any election in our nation’s history. In Georgia we saw this most historic demonstration of the power of the vote twice – in November and then again in the runoff election for the U.S. Senate seats in January. Recount after recount and court case after court case upheld the integrity and outcome of a clearly free, fair, and secure democratic process. Yet instead of celebrating the rights of all Georgians to vote or winning campaigns on the merits of their ideas, Republicans in the state instead rushed through an un-American law to deny people the right to vote. This law, like so many others being pursued by Republicans in statehouses across the country is a blatant attack on the Constitution and good conscience. Among the outrageous parts of this new state law, it ends voting hours early so working people can’t cast their vote after their shift is over. It adds rigid restrictions on casting absentee ballots that will effectively deny the right to vote to countless voters. And it makes it a crime to provide water to voters while they wait in line – lines Republican officials themselves have created by reducing the number of polling sites across the state, disproportionately in Black neighborhoods. This is Jim Crow in the 21st Century. It must end. We have a moral and Constitutional obligation to act. I once again urge Congress to pass the For the People Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to make it easier for all eligible Americans access the ballot box and prevent attacks on the sacred right to vote. And I will take my case to the American people – including Republicans who joined the broadest coalition of voters ever in this past election to put country before party. If you have the best ideas, you have nothing to hide. Let the people vote. ### Please, please sit down. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Before I take questions, I want to make — give you a progress report to the nation on where we stand 65 days into office here on vaccinations and a few other top priorities for the American people. First, on vaccinations: On December 8th, I indicated that I hoped to get 100 million shots in people’s arms in my first 100 days. We met that goal last week by day 58 — 42 days ahead of schedule. Now, today, I’m setting a second goal, and that is: We will, by my 100th day in office, have administered 200 million shots in people’s arms. That’s right: 200 million shots in 100 days. I know it’s ambitious, twice our original goal, but no other country in the world has even come close — not even close — to what we are doing. And I believe we can do it. And today, we’ve made a historic investment in reaching the hardest-hit and the most vulnerable communities, the highest-risk communities — as a consequence of the virus — by investing an addition $10 billion in being able to reach them. I also set a goal, before I took office, of getting a majority of schools in K through 8 fully open in the first 100 days. Now, thanks to the enormous amount of work done by our administration, educators, parents, local, state education officials and leaders — a recent Department of Education Department survey shows that nearly half of the K-through-8 schools are open now full time, five days a week, for in-person learning. Not yet a majority, but we’re really close. And I believe, in the 35 days left to go, we’ll meet that goal as well. As of yesterday, more than 100 million payments of $1,400 have gone into people’s bank accounts. That’s real money in people’s pockets, bringing relief instantly, almost. And millions more will be getting their money very soon. One final note: Since we passed the American Rescue Plan, we’re starting to see new signs of hope in our economy. Since it was passed, a majority — a majority of economic forecasters have significantly increased their projections on the economic growth that’s going to take place this year. They’re now projecting it will exceed 6 percent — a 6 percent growth in GDP. And just this morning, we learned that the number of people filing for weekly unemployment insurance fell by nearly 100,000 persons. That’s the first time in a year the number has fallen below the pre-pandemic high. So there are still too many Americans out of work, too many families hurting, and we still have a lot of work to do. But I can say to you, the American people: Help is here, and hope is on the way. Now I’ll be happy to take your questions. Zeke, the Associated Press. Well, I’m going to — look, when I took office, I decided that it was a fairly basic, simple proposition, and that is: I got elected to solve problems. And the most urgent problem facing the American people, I stated from the outset, was COVID-19 and the economic dislocation for millions and millions of Americans. And so that’s why I put all my focus in the beginning — there are a lot of problems — put all my focus on dealing with those particular problems. And the other problems we’re talking about, from immigration to guns and the other things you mentioned, are long-term problems; they’ve been around a long time. And what we’re going to be able to do, God willing, is now begin, one at a time, to focus on those as well, and — whether it’s immigration or guns or a number of other problems that face the country. But the fundamental problem is getting people some peace of mind so they can go to bed at night and not stare at the ceiling wondering whether they lost their health insurance, whether they’re going to lose a family member, whether they’re going to be in a position where they’re not going to be — they’re going to lose their home because they can’t pay their mortgage, or that millions of people are going to get thrown out of their homes because of the inability to — to pay their rent. So we’re going to move on these one at a time, try to do as many simultaneously as we can. But that’s the reason why I focused as I have. And here’s the deal: I think my Republican colleagues are going to have to determine whether or not we want to work together, or they decide that the way in which they want to proceed is to — is to just decide to divide the country, continue the politics of division. But I’m not going to do that; I’m just going to move forward and take these things as they come. Well, I plan on making progress on all of them, but that’s going to be for the American people to decide. I think — you know, I doubt whether — maybe you did; maybe others did. I thought — many of you thought there was no possibility of my getting the plan I got passed, passed, without any Republican votes. A pretty big deal. It got passed. Growing the economy. People’s lives are changing. So let’s see what happens. All I know, I’ve been hired to solve problems — to solve problems, not create division. Okay. How about Yamiche? Well, look, I guess I should be flattered people are coming because I’m the nice guy; that’s the reason why it’s happening — that I’m a decent man or however it’s phrased. That — you know, that’s why they’re coming, because they know Biden is a good guy. The truth of the matter is: Nothing has changed. As many people came — 28 percent increase in children to the border in my administration; 31 percent in the last year of — in 2019, before the pandemic, in the Trump administration. It happens every single, solitary year: There is a significant increase in the number of people coming to the border in the winter months of January, February, March. That happens every year. In addition to that, there is a — and nobody — and, by the way, does anybody suggest that there was a 31 percent increase under Trump because he was a nice guy and he was doing good things at the border? That’s not the reason they’re coming. The reason they’re coming is that it’s the time they can travel with the least likelihood of dying on the way because of the heat in the desert, number one. Number two, they’re coming because of the circumstances in-country — in-country. The way to deal with this problem — and I started to deal with it back when I was a United States senator — I mean, Vice President — putting together a bipartisan plan of over $700 million to deal with the root causes of why people are leaving. What did Trump do? He eliminated that funding. He didn’t use it. He didn’t do it. And in addition to that, what he did — he dismantled all the elements that exist to deal with what had been a problem and — and has been — continued to be a problem for a long time. He, in fact, shut down the — the number of beds available. He did not fund HHS to get people to get the children out of those — those Border Patrol facilities where they should not be and not supposed to be more than a few days — a little while. But he dismantled all of that. And so what we’re doing now is attempting to rebuild — rebuild the system that can accommodate the — what is happening today. And I like to think it’s because I’m a nice guy, but it’s not. It’s because of what’s happened every year. Let me say one other thing on this. If you take a look at the number of people who are coming, the vast majority, the overwhelming majority of people coming to the border and crossing are being sent back — are being sent back. Thousands — tens of thousands of people who are — who are over 18 years of age and single — people, one at a time coming, have been sent back, sent home. We’re sending back the vast majority of the families that are coming. We’re trying to work out now, with Mexico, their willingness to take more of those families back. But we — that’s what’s happening. They’re not getting across the border. And those who are coming across the border, who are unaccompanied children, we’re moving rapidly to try to put in place what was dismantled, as I said. For example, of all the children who are coming across the border, over 70 percent are either 16 or 17 years old. We’re not talking about people ripping babies from mothers’ arms or little three-year-olds standing on the border. Less than — I think it’s one and a half percent fall in the category of the very young. So what we’re doing is we’re providing for the space, again, to be able to get these kids out of the Border Patrol facilities, which no child — no one should be in any longer than 72 hours. And today, I went to — for example, I used all the resources available to me, went to the Defense Department, and — and the Secretary of Defense has just made available Fort Bliss — 5,000 beds be made easily available. Five thousand beds on the Texas border. So we’re building back up the capacity that should have been maintained and built upon that Trump dismantled. It’s going to take time. And the other thing we’re doing, I might add — am I giving you too long an answer? Because if you don’t want the details — No, no, but I mean — I don’t know how much detail you want about immigration. Maybe I’ll stop there and fin- — Well, look, I’m going to deal with all of those problems. The question is, the priorities as they come and land on my plate. Let’s go to the first question you asked — the first of the second question you asked. And that is: What about dealing with families? Why are not — some not going back? Because Mexico is refusing to take them back. They’re saying they won’t take them back — not all of them. We’re in negotiations with the President of Mexico. I think we’re going to see that change. They should all be going back, all be going back. The only people we’re not going to let sitting there on the other side of the Rio Grande by themselves with no help are children. And what we’re doing there, and it’s an important point to understand — I know you understand; I don’t mean to say it that way — an important point to focus on: The vast majority of people under the age of 18 coming to United States come with a telephone number on a wristband or come with a telephone number in their pocket in the United States — a mother, a father, a close relative, a grandmom or a grandpop. What was happening before is it was taking literally weeks and weeks, and maybe even months, before anybody would pick up the phone and call to see if there really was someone there. Well, we’ve set up a system now where, within 24 hours, there’s a phone call made as that person or that child crosses the border. And then a verification system is being put in place as of today to determine quickly whether or not that is a trafficker being called or that is actually a mom, a dad, and/or a close relative. They’re establishing that right off the bat. If it, in fact, is Mom or Dad, Dad says — to take the extreme case — “I got a birth certificate.” Then guess what? We’re getting that kid directly to that parent immediately. And so that’s going to reduce significantly — there’s two ways to reduce child populations in circumstances that are not acceptable, like being held at a Border Patrol station. One is to get them to the place where they have a relative and set a date as to when a hearing can be held. The second way to do it is put them in a Health and Human Services facility that we’re occupying now — both licensed beds around the country that exist, as well as, for example, federal resources like Fort Bliss — to get them safely in a place where they can be taken care of while their fate is determined. Filibuster. Filibuster. You know, with regard to the filibuster, I believe we should go back to a position on the filibuster that existed just when I came to the United States Senate 120 years ago. And that is that — it used to be required for the filibuster — and I had a card on this; I was going to give you the statistics, but you probably know them — that it used to be that, that from between 1917 to 1971 — the filibuster existed — there was a total of 58 motions to break a filibuster that whole time. Last year alone, there were five times that many. So it’s being abused in a gigantic way. And, for example, it used to be you had to stand there and talk and talk and talk and talk until you collapsed. And guess what? People got tired of talking and tired of collapsing. Filibusters broke down, and we were able to break the filibuster, get a quorum, and vote. So I strongly support moving in that direction, in addition to having an open mind about dealing with certain things that are — are just elemental to the functioning of our democracy, like the right to vote — like the basic right to vote. We’ve amended the filibuster in the past. But here’s the deal: As you observed, I’m a fairly practical guy. I want to get things done. I want to get them done, consistent with what we promised the American people. And in order to do that in a 50-50 Senate, we’ve got to get to the place where I get 50 votes so that the Vice President of the United States can break the tie, or I get 51 votes without her. And so, I’m going to say something outrageous: I have never been particularly poor at calculating how to get things done in the United States Senate. So the best way to get something done, if you — if you hold near and dear to you that you like to be able to — anyway — I — we’re going to get a lot done. And if we have to — if there’s complete lockdown and chaos as a consequence of the filibuster, then we’ll have to go beyond what I’m talking about. Okay. Hang on. Sorry. Oh, Seung Min — Ms. Kim. If we could end it with 51, we would have no problem. You’re going to have to — the existing rule — it’s going to be hard to get a parliamentary ruling that allows 50 votes to end the filibuster, the existence of a filibuster. But it’s not my expertise, in what the parliamentary rules and how to get there are. But our preoccupation with the filibuster is totally legitimate, but in the meantime, we got a lot we can do while we’re talking about what we’re going to do about the filibuster. Let me get here. Okay, Cecilia Vega. Astounding. Well, look, the idea that I’m going to say — which I would never do — “if an unaccompanied child ends up at the border, we’re just going to let him starve to death and stay on the other side” — no previous administration did that either, except Trump. I’m not going to do it. I’m not going to do it. That’s why I’ve asked the Vice President of the United States, yesterday, to be the lead person on dealing with focusing on the fundamental reasons why people leave Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador in the first place. It’s because of earthquakes, floods. It’s because of lack of food. It’s because of gang violence. It’s because of a whole range of things. That — when I was Vice President and had the same obligation to deal with unaccompanied children, I was able to get it slowed up significantly by working with the heads of state of those communities to do things like — in one of the major cities, the reason people were leaving is they couldn’t walk in the street because they were getting — their kids were getting beat up or shot or in gang violence. Well, what I was able to do is not give money to the head of state, because so many are corrupt, but I was able to say, “Okay, you need lighting in the streets to change things? I’ll put the lighting in.” We got a contractor. We got the type of lighting. We paid directly to the contractor; it did not go through the government. And violent crime significantly was reduced in that city. Fewer people sought to leave. When this hurricane occurred — two hurricanes — instead of us going down and helping in a major way, so that people would not have reason to want to leave in the first place because they didn’t have housing or water or sustenance, we did nothing. We’re going to do a lot in our administration. We’re going to be spending that 700-plus million dollars a year to change the life and circumstances of why people leave in the first place. That mother did not sit around with — on the kitchen table and say, “You know, I got a great idea: The way I’m going to make sure my son get taken care of is I’m going to put a…” — how old was he, or she? A nine-year-old. “I’m going to send him on a thousand-mile journey across the desert and up to the United States because I know Joe Biden is a nice guy and he’ll take care of him.” What a desperate act to have to take. The circumstances must be horrible. So we can do something about that. That’s what the Vice President is going to be doing: what I did. When President Obama asked me to come and deal, I was in — I was in Turkey at the time, and he said, “You got to come home and take care of this.” So we put together a plan and it had an impact. And so, the question here is whether — how we go ahead and do this; what we do. There’s no easy answer Well, the judgment has to be made whether or not — and in this young man’s case, he has a mom at home; there’s an overwhelming reason why he’d be put in a plane and flown back to his mom. Yep. Is — that’s a serious question, right? Is it acceptable to me? Come on. That’s why we’re going to be moving a thousand of those kids out quickly. That’s why I got Fort Bliss opened up. That’s why I’ve been working from the moment this started to happen to try to find additional access for children to be able to safely — not just children, but particularly children — to be able to safely be housed while we follow through on the rest of what’s happening. That is totally unacceptable. Ken. The answer is that it’s going to be hard to meet the May 1 deadline. Just in terms of tactical reasons, it’s hard to get those troops out. So, what we’ve been doing — what I’ve been doing and what Secretary Blinken has been doing — has been — we’ve been meeting with our allies, those other nations that have NATO Allies who have troops in Afghanistan as well. And if we leave, we’re going to do so in a safe and orderly way. We’re in consultation, I said, with our allies and partners in how to proceed. And Secretary Blinken is meeting in Brussels this week with our NATO Allies, particularly those who have forces there. And General Austin is — just met with Kayani [Ghani] and I’m waiting for the briefing on that. He is the — the “leader,” quote, in Afghanistan and Kabul. And there’s a U.N.-led process that’s beginning shortly on how to mechanically get people — how to end this war. But it is not my intention to stay there for a long time. But the question is: How and in what circumstances do we meet that agreement that was made by President Trump to leave under a deal that looks like it’s not being able to be worked out to begin with? How is that done? But we are not staying a long time. We will leave. The question is when we leave. I — I can’t picture that being the case. Okay. Kristen. I will commit when my plan, very shortly, is underway to let you have access to not just them, but to other facilities as well. I will commit to transparency, and — as soon as I am in a position to be able to implement what we are doing right now. And one of the reasons I haven’t gone down — I have all my — my chief folks have gone down — is I don’t want to become the issue. I don’t want to be, you know, bringing all of the Secret Service and everybody with me to get in the way. So this is being set up, and you’ll have full access to everything once we get this thing moving. I don’t know, to be clear. To roll back what? I’m sorry. First of all, all the policies that were underway were not helping at all — did not slow up the amount of immigration — and there’s many people coming. And rolling back the policies of separating children from — from their mothers, I make no apology for that. Rolling back the policies of “Remain in Mexico,” sitting on the edge of the Rio Grande in a muddy circumstance with not enough to eat and — I make no apologies for that. I make no apologies for ending programs that did not exist before Trump became President that have an incredibly negative impact on the law, international law, as well as on human dignity. And so, I make no apologies for that. Let me say that, number one, U.N. Resolution 1718 was violated by those particular missiles that were tested — number one. We’re consulting with our allies and partners. And there will be responses — if they choose to escalate, we will respond accordingly. But I’m also prepared for some form of diplomacy, but it has to be conditioned upon the end result of denuclearization. So that’s what we’re doing right now: consulting with our allies. You’ve only got another hour now, okay? Yes. Okay. Hang on a second here, Kristen. Nancy, CBS. What I’m worried about is how un-American this whole initiative is. It’s sick. It’s sick. Deciding in some states that you cannot bring water to people standing in line, waiting to vote; deciding that you’re going to end voting at five o’clock when working people are just getting off work; deciding that there will be no absentee ballots under the most rigid circumstances. It’s all designed — and I’m going to spend my time doing three things: One, trying to figure out how to pass the legislation passed by the House, number one. Number two, educating the American public. The Republican voters I know find this despicable. Republican voters, the folks out in — outside this White House. I’m not talking about the elected officials; I’m talking about voters. Voters. And so I am convinced that we’ll be able to stop this because it is the most pernicious thing. This makes Jim Crow look like Jim Eagle. I mean, this is gigantic what they’re trying to do, and it cannot be sustained. I’m going to do everything in my power, along with my friends in the House and the Senate, to keep that from — from becoming the law. The answer is “yes,” but I’m not going to lay out a strategy in front of the whole world and you now. My predecessor need do [sic] — needed to. My predecessor. Oh God, I miss him. No, the answer is “yes.” My plan is to run for reelection. That’s my expectation. No, I haven’t at all. I’ve been meeting — when is the last time a President invited the opposite party down at least a half a dozen times to talk about issues? Everything from how we work — we’re working with a group of 20 members of the Senate right now and House on how we reestablish our ability to make computer chips and how we get ahead of the game, how we can work together. And we’re working together on a bunch of things. But, look, I know Mitch well; Mitch knows me well. I would expect Mitch to say exactly what he said. But this is a matter of making sure that — I would like Republican — elected Republican support, but what I know I have now is that I have electoral support from Republican voters. Republican voters agree with what I’m doing. And so, unless Mitch says the last thing I did is — the last piece of legislation is so far left — well, then he ought to a look at his party. Over 50 percent of them must be over that edge as well because they support what I did. Okay. Where am I here? Let me see. Kaitlan. That counts as a question, but go ahead. No, no — you can. Yes. Successful electoral politics is the art of the possible. Let’s figure out how we can get this done and move in the direction of significantly changing the abuse of even the filibuster rule first. It’s been abused from the time it came into being — by an extreme way in the last 20 years. Let’s deal with the abuse first. I answered your question. I said, “That is my expectation.” Look, I — I don’t know where you guys come from, man. I’ve never been able to travel. I’m a great respecter of fate. I’ve never been able to plan four and half, three and a half years ahead for certain. It — I would fully expect that to be the case. She’s doing a great job. She’s a great partner. She’s a great partner. Oh, come on. I don’t even think about — I don’t — I have no idea. I have no idea if there will be a Republican Party. Do you? I know you don’t have to answer my question, but, I mean, you know, do you? I mean, look, this is — the way I view things — I’ve become a great respecter of fate in my life. I set a goal that’s in front of me to get things done for the people I care most about, which are hardworking, decent American people who are getting — really having it stuck to them. I want to change the paradigm. I want to change the paradigm. We start to reward work, not just wealth. I want to change the paradigm. If you notice — don’t you find it kind of interesting that my Republican friends were worried about that the cost and the taxes that had to be had — if there is any tax to be had, as they talk about it — in dealing with the — the act that we just passed which puts money in people’s pockets — ordinary people. Did you hear them complain when they passed close to a $2 trillion Trump tax cut — 83 percent going to the top 1 percent? Did you hear them talk about that all? I love the fact that they’ve found this whole idea of concern about the federal budget. It’s kind of amazing. When the federal budget is saving people’s lives, they don’t think it’s such a good idea. When the federal budget is feathering the nest of the wealthiest Americans — 90 of the Fortune 500 companies making billions of dollars not paying a cent in taxes; reducing taxes to the point that people who are making — you know, if you’re a husband and wife, a schoolteacher and a cop, you’re paying at a higher rate than the average person making a billion dollars a year is — something is wrong. Their newfound concern. I’m concerned — look, I meant what I said when I ran. And a lot of you still think I’m wrong, and I respect that. I said, “I’m running for three reasons: to restore the soul, dignity, honor, honesty, transparency to the American political system; two, to rebuild the backbone of this country — the middle class, hardworking people, and people struggling to get in the middle class. They built America, and unions built them.” The third reason I said I was running was to unite the country. And, generically speaking, all of you said, “No, you can’t do that.” Well, I’ve not been able to unite the Congress, but I’ve been uniting the country, based on the polling data. We have to come together. We have to. So, from my perspective, you know, it’s a — to me, it’s about just, you know, getting out there, putting one foot in front of the other and just trying to make things better for people — just hardworking people. People get up every morning and just want to figure out how to put food on the table for their kids, to be able have a little bit of breathing room, being able to have — make sure that they go to bed not staring at the ceiling, like my dad, wondering whether — since he didn’t have health insurance, what happens if mom gets sick or he got sick. These are basic things. Basic things. And I’m of the view that the vast majority of people, including registered Republicans, by and large, share that — that same — that same view, that same sense of what is — you know, what’s appropriate. Justin. Justin Sink, Bloomberg. Well, look, they’re each specifically legitimate questions, but they only touch a smidgen of what the relationship with China really is about. I’ve known Xi Jinping for a long time. Allegedly, by the time I left office as Vice President, I had spent more time with Xi Jinping than any world leader had, because President Obama and the Chinese President Hu decided we should get to know one another since it was inappropriate for the President of the United States to spend time with the vice president of another country. But it was obvious he was going to become the new leader of China. So, I spent hours upon hours with him alone with an interpreter — my interpreter and his — going into great detail. He is very, very straightforward. Doesn’t have a democratic — with a small “D” — bone in his body. But he’s a smart, smart guy. He’s one of the guys, like Putin, who thinks that autocracy is the wave of the future and democracy can’t function in an ever — an ever-complex world. So, when I was elected and he called to congratulate me, I think to the surprise of the China experts who were — his people were on call as well as mine, listening — we had a two-hour conversation. For two hours. And we made several things clear to one another. I made it clear to him again what I’ve told him in person on several occasions: that we’re not looking for confrontation, although we know there will be steep, steep competition. Two, that we’ll have strong competition but we’ll insist that China play by the international rules: fair competition, fair practices, fair trade. Thirdly, in order to compete effectively, I indicated that we’re going to deal with China effectively, and we’re going to need three things to do that. I tell him, our people. First, we’re going to invest in American workers and American science. I said that all through the campaign and I say it again. And we’re — and I’m setting up my administration to be able to do that, which is that, you know, back in the ‘60s, we used to invest a little over 2 percent of our entire GDP in pure research and investment in science. Today, it’s 0.7 percent. I’m going to change that. We’re going to change that. The future lies in who can, in fact, own the future as it relates to technology, quantum computing, a whole range of things, including in medical fields. And so what I’m going to do is make sure we invest closer to 2 percent. One of the reasons why I’ve set up the — the PAB [PCAST] — the President’s board with scientists and the like, again — is we’re going to invest in medical research — cancer, Alzheimer’s, diabetes, the things — industries of the future — artificial intelligence, quantum computing, biotech. And we’re going to make real investments. China is out investing us by a longshot, because their plan is to own that future. The third — the second thing we’re going to do is we’re going to reestablish our alliances. And I’ve been very clear with him, it’s not anti-Chinese. And we’ve talked about it. I want to make sure that, for example, later today, after this — as a matter of fact, shortly after this, which is fine; we’ve been going close to an hour. I’m happy to go longer. But one of the things that I’m going to be doing, I’m going to be speaking with the 27 heads of state in Europe and very shortly — I think within the next hour or so. I don’t know the exact time. And earlier this month — and apparently it got the Chinese’s attention; that’s not why I did it — I met with our allies and how we’re going to hold China accountable in the region: Australia, India, Japan, and the United States — the so-called Quad. Because we have to have democracies working together. Before too long, I’m going to have — I’m going to invite an alliance of democracies to come here to discuss the future. And so we’re going to make it clear that in order to deal with these things, we are going to hold China accountable to follow the rules — to follow the rules — whether it relates to the South China Sea or the North China Sea, or their agreement made on Taiwan, or a whole range of other things. And the third thing, and the thing that I admire about dealing with Xi is he understands — he makes no pretense about not understanding what I’m saying any more than I do him — I pointed out to him: No leader can be sustained in his position or her position unless they represent the values of the country. And I said as — “And, Mr. President, as I’ve told you before, Americans value the notion of freedom. America values human rights. We don’t always live up to our expectations, but it’s a values system. We are founded on that principle. And as long as you and your country continues to so blatantly violate human rights, we’re going to continue, in an unrelenting way, to call to the attention of the world and make it clear — make it clear what’s happening.” And he understood that. I made it clear that no American President — at least one did — but no American President ever back down from speaking out of what’s happening to the Uighurs, what’s happening in Hong Kong, what’s happening in-country. That’s who we are. The moment a President walks away from that, as the last one did, is the moment we begin to lose our legitimacy around the world. It’s who we are. So I see stiff competition with China. China has an overall goal, and I don’t criticize them for the goal, but they have an overall goal to become the leading country in the world, the wealthiest country in the world, and the most powerful country in the world. That’s not going to happen on my watch because the United States are going to continue to grow and expand. No, that’s not where I make the decision; that’s where I make sure we’re all on the same page. All on the same page. Look, I predict to you, your children or grandchildren are going to be doing their doctoral thesis on the issue of who succeeded: autocracy or democracy? Because that is what is at stake, not just with China. Look around the world. We’re in the midst of a fourth industrial revolution of enormous consequence. Will there be middle class? How will people adjust to these significant changes in science and technology and the environment? How will they do that? And are democracies equipped — because all the people get to speak — to compete? It is clear, absolutely clear — and most of the scholars I dealt with at Penn agree with me around the country — that this is a battle between the utility of democracies in the 21st century and autocracies. If you notice, you don’t have Russia talking about communism anymore. It’s about an autocracy. Demand decisions made by a leader of a country — that’s what’s at stake here. We’ve got to prove democracy works. All the above. It’s a matter of timing. As you’ve all observed, successful presidents — better than me — have been successful, in large part, because they know how to time what they’re doing — order it, decide and prioritize what needs to be done. The next major initiative is — and I’ll be announcing it Friday in Pittsburgh, in detail — is to rebuild the infrastructure — both physical and technological infrastructure in this country — so that we can compete and create significant numbers of really good-paying jobs. Really good-paying jobs. And some of you have been around long enough to know that used to be a great Republican goal and initiative. I still think the majority of the American people don’t like the fact that we are now ranked, what, 85th in the world in infrastructure. I mean, look, the future rests on whether or not we have the best airports that are going to accommodate air travel, ports that you can get in and out of quickly, so businesses decide. Some of you, if you were ever local reporters, and you found your governor or mayor trying to attract business to your community, what’s the first thing that businesses asked? “What’s the closest access to — access to an interstate highway? How far am I from a freight rail? Is the water — is the water available? Is there enough water available for me to conduct my business?” All the things that relate to infrastructure. We have somewhere — I asked the staff to write it down for me, and they did — not for this, but for a longer discussion. We have somewhere, in terms of infrastructure — we have — we rank 13th globally in infrastructure. China is investing three times more in infrastructure than the United States is. Bridges: More than one third of our bridges — 231,000 of them — need repairs. Some are physical safety risks or preservation work. One in five miles of our highways and major roads are in poor condition. That’s 186,000 miles of highway. Aviation: 20 percent of all flights — 20 percent of all flights weren’t on time, resulting in 1.5 million hours lost in production. Six to ten million homes in America still have lead pipes servicing their water lines. We have over 100,000 wellheads that are not capped, leaking methane. What are we doing? And, by the way, we can put as many pipefitters and miners and — to work capping those wells at the same price that they would charge to dig those wells. So, I — I just find it frustrated — frustrating to talk about. Last point I’ll make on the infrastructure — and I apologize for spending more time on it, but — is that if you think about it, it’s the place where we will be able to significantly increase American productivity, at the same time providing really good jobs for people. But we can’t build back to what they used to be. We have to build — the environment has — global warming has already done significant damage. The roads that used to be above the water level — didn’t have to worry about where the drainage ditch was — now you got to rebuild them three feet higher. Because it’s not going to go back to what it was before; it will only get worse, unless we stop it. There’s so much we can do. Look at all of the schools in America. Most of you live in the Washington area now. But in your hometowns — I don’t know where you’re all from — how many schools where the kids can’t drink the water out of the fountain? How many schools are still in the position where there’s asbestos? How many schools in America we’re sending our kids to don’t have adequate ventilation? How many homes, buildings, office complexes are wasting billions of barrels of oil over time because they can’t hold in the heat or the air conditioning because it leaks through the windows that are so porous and the connections? It’s amazing. So there’s so much we can do that’s good stuff, makes people healthier, and creates good jobs. And I think that I got one more question here. Janet from Univision. Well, they’re already getting better, but they’re going to get real — they’ll get a whole hell of lot better real quick, or we’re going to hear of some people leaving, okay? We can get this done. We’re going to get it done. I had a long meeting with the entire team and several Cabinet-level officers the other night. We’re going to be moving, within the next — within the next week, over 100,000 — I mean, 1,000 people out of the Border Patrol into safe, secure beds and facilities. We’re going to significantly ramp up. We’re already out there contacting everyone, from getting some of the employees at HHS — and there’s a lot of them doing other things — and move them into making those calls. We’re in a — we’re in the process of rearranging and providing for the personnel needed to get that done. But I admire the fact that you were down there; you’re making the calls yourself. It’s real. The next thing that has to happen though — as you well know has to happen — there have to be some certitude that this is the — actually mom, dad, or whomever. And there’s ways to do that. There’s ways to do that — a little bit like determining whether or not you got the right code for your credit card, you know? “What was your dog’s name?” kind of a thing. I’m being a bit facetious, but not really. And also seeking harder data, from DNA to — to birth certificates, which takes longer. So, I want to do this as quickly as humanly possible and as safely as possible. Well, I can’t guarantee that. But I know, you know, that old thing: The journey of 1,000 miles starts with the first step. You know as well as I do; you cover it: You have serious — it’s not like somebody at a sitting hand-hewn table in Guatemala — I mean, in — in somewhere in Mexico or in Guadalupe, saying, “I got a great idea. Let’s sell everything we have. Give it to a coyote. Have him take our kids across the border and into a desert where they don’t speak the language. Won’t that be fun? Let’s go.” That’s not how it happens. People don’t want to leave. When my great grandfather got on a coffin ship in the Irish Sea, expectation was: Was he going to live long enough on that ship to get to the United States of America? But they left because of what the Brits had been doing. They were in real, real trouble. They didn’t want to leave. But they had no choice. So you got — we can’t — I can’t guarantee we’re going to solve everything, but I can guarantee we can make everything better. We can make it better. We can change the lives of so many people. And the other thing I want to point out to you and I hope you point out: I realize it’s much more heart wrenching — and it is — to deal with a five- and six- and seven-year-old. But you went down there, and you saw: The vast majority of these children — 70 percent — are 16 years old, 17 years old, and mostly males. Doesn’t make it — that doesn’t make it good, bad, or indifferent. But the idea that we have tens of thousands of kids in these God-awful facilities that are, really, little babies crying all night — and there’s some; that’s true. That’s why we got to act. And yesterday, I asked my team — both the director of the two agencies, as well as others — I asked them what would they, in fact — and I asked their opinion because they’re the experts — but I said, “Focus on the most vulnerable immediately.” But there’s no reason why, in the next month, as people cross the border, that phone call can’t be made in the first 48 hours and begin. No, because I know they have to posture for a while. They sort of got to get it out of their system. This is a — but I’m ready to work with any Republican who wants to help solve the problem and make the situation better. But, folks, I’m going. Thank you very, very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Well, good afternoon, everyone. Megan and Margaret, thank you. Thank you for being here. And to all your teammates virtually, thank you as well. I’m an unadulterated fan. Not a joke. Not a joke. And both of you and your entire team — I’m not joking — have inspired our daughters and our granddaughters, who, I might add, are all really good athletes: one two-time All-State; my niece, All-American. There’s a whole lot of talent in the Biden family athletics, almost all on the women’s side of the equation. But I — really, thank you for what you’ve done. You know, you’re all heroes for so many people — and that’s not hyperbole to suggest that — on and off the field. You know, and it matters that you lent your voice to the issues and the issue of fair pay and decency for so many years. Megan, it’s hard to believe it was almost a year ago that we met virtually during the campaign. I said it last April, when we spoke, and I’ll say it again: The fact that Jill and I get to talk with you and your teammates makes us heroes with our granddaughters. Not a joke. I went so far as I took — they might may say — a privilege of getting our granddaughter Maisy, who is a rising junior at the University of Pennsylvania — up taking a course right now — I got her on the phone so she — all she wanted to do was meet both of these women and meet them virtually. And she’s a soccer player. And as Jill mentioned, seeing you win the World Cup back in 2015, that was an incredible moment for our family and our country. And I didn’t bore you with all the pictures we still have walking on the field — — no, I’m serious — and off the field. You all made me a hero with my granddaughters. And the reason we’re here today is because it’s Equal Pay Day, which has been around for 25 years. It was declared 25 years ago — Equal Pay Day — though not enough people know about that and — and they — as they should. You know, it’s a day that measures how much longer women typically have to work to match what men make in a single year. That’s what Jill was talking about. And it’s shocking when you look at the numbers. Twelve years ago, when President Obama and I came into office, the very first law we enacted was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, and Lilly was standing at our side. This year — that year, I should say, in 2009, we marked — Equal Pay Day occurred in late April. By late April, women will have made, at that time, on average, what men make in 12 months. They had to go all the way through January, February, March, and April to catch up. That meant that it took women until April of 2009 to earn the same amount of money that a man made in all of 2008. Another way to look at it is, it took more than 15 months for a woman to earn the same amount that a man made in 12. And more than three extra months — it’s more than that. And it’s even longer for women of color. And it’s wrong. This year, Equal Pay Day falls in late March, which is a little bit better, but not much — from late April to late March. And, frankly, we shouldn’t be satisfied until Equal Pay Day is no longer even necessary to mention at all. The reality though is that in nearly every job — more than 90 percent of the occupations — women still earn less than men: 82 cents on the dollar on average. For AAPI women, it’s 87 cents for every dollar a white man earns. For Black women, it’s 63 cents. For Native American women, it’s 60 cents. For Hispanic women, it’s 55 cents. It doesn’t matter if you’re an electrician, an accountant, or part of the best damn soccer team in the world, the pay gap is real. And this team is living proof that you can be the very best at what you do and still have to fight for equal pay. You know, as Jill mentioned, this pandemic has only exacerbated the problem. Women are on the frontlines as essential workers, particularly women of color, in hospitals, grocery stores, childcare facilities, farms, factories, but they’re still earning less. More than 2 million women have dropped out of the workforce since the pandemic started — 2 million. And now we’re at the lowest rate of women participation in the labor force that we’ve been in more than 30 years. Let me say it again: The lowest — the lowest percent of women in the workforce — had to go back 30 years to get to where we are today. A lot of that is because so much extra weight of caregiving and responsibility is falling on their shoulders. It causes women to miss work, cut hours, and leave their jobs and care for their children and aging loved ones. That in and of itself sows some discrimination. How many men are staying home and doing it, and the woman’s staying in the workforce? It undermines financial security. And, by the way, it’s hard. I was a single parent with two children after my first wife and daughter were killed well over 40 years ago. And the fact of the matter is, I was a U.S. senator. I was 29 years old. I was making $42,000 a year, and I couldn’t afford help to take care of my kids while I worked. Thankful- — thankfully, my mother — my sister gave up her job. My brother — they helped me raise my kids. It undermines financial security for women and families. It hurts our entire economy when we lose the talent and hard work of so many people. In the American Rescue Plan you’ve heard so much about that we just passed, it was designed to address this core challenge. It puts money directly into the pockets of people who need it the most: $1,400 checks for 85 percent of American households. The hundredth million check has been deposited as of today, and many more are on the way. It also expanded the Child Care Tax Credit. And here’s what that means, for those who don’t know: Right now, if you file for federal income tax, you get up to a $2,000 credit for each child. But if you need help the most, if you’re making a minimum wage job and you don’t have to — you don’t make enough to pay federal income tax, then you don’t get this credit. But because of the American Rescue Plan we passed, if you have two children under the age of six, for example, and you’re making $7.25 an hour — which is the minimum wage that so many people are making — you’ll get a check for $3,600 per child or $7,200. Roughly, you get $500 a month mailed to you by the federal government. That’s life-changing. The American Rescue Plan is going to cut poverty across the board in America by about 31 percent. And that’s a significant lift up for women. The law provides $360 billion for funding state and local governments. What that means is that’s going to prevent layoffs on jobs often held by women — nurses, teachers, healthcare workers, home healthcare aides — because the states have to balance their budget, because if they can’t — because of the lack of income coming in without the help from the federal government — they’ll have to lay off those essential workers. And the law also includes $130 billion to reopen our schools safely; $40 billion for — invest in childcare investments; $160 billion to get the country vaccinated and beat this pandemic. All this is going to give millions of women, including many moms and dads too, the freedom to rejoin the workforce and make the career choices that are best for them and their families. But there’s so much more we need to do. So much more. We need the Congress to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act — the bill to remove loopholes in the law allowing employers to justify gender pay disparities. It would help hold employers accountable for systemic pay discrimination. It would help level the playing field for women and people of color by making it easier for workers to challenge the disparities as a group. It would increase pay transparency. By that, I mean, you know, there’s a whole range of American corporations — if you sign the Fortune 500 — you sign up with them, you cannot reveal — it says in your contract you cannot reveal your salary to another employee. Why is that? They don’t want me sitting there saying, “Well, I’m making $60,000.” And the woman doing the same job, and she looks and said, “You’re making 60? I’m making 40.” They actually try to hide it. That’s what I mean by transparency. Some employers may not allow you to know exactly, like I said, how much the person sitting next to you is making. Some may even discipline you for asking that. That has to change. Too often, secrecy is part of the problem. We know information is power. You can’t solve the problem if you don’t know you’re not getting paid fairly. My administration is going to fight for equal pay — for it to become a reality for all women. It’s about justice. It’s about fairness. It’s about living up to our values and who we are as a nation. Equal pay makes all of us stronger. It’s not just women who care about this. I’ve been around the country. I’ve gone right into union halls and asked the men in the room, “How many of you — how would you feel if your wife or your sister didn’t earn the same amount of money as the man doing the same job next to you?” And you hear them say — you hear them respond they don’t like it. Why? When your spouse or your sister is making the same amount of money the man she’s standing next is making, it means that when the hot water heater breaks, you can replace it. You can get four new tires on the car. It means everybody’s life is made better in that family. Let me close with this: that to come out of this crisis and build back better, we need to erase the gender pay gap by ensuring that women have access to good-paying jobs; by raising wages for working folks and fighting for the right to organize and collectively bargain, because we know unions lift women’s wages even more than they lift men’s; and by investing our care — in our care infrastructure — our care infrastructure — in paid leave, childcare, homecare — so that people can care for their families and also go to work. There’s a lot to do, but together we can ensure that our daughters have all the same rights and opportunities as our sons. And if we’re able to do this, it’ll be transformational for our nation. That’s the goal. That’s what this is all about. That’s what this team, all of you, are all about. Let me make one more point. You know, I’ve told my daughters, granddaughters from the time they got old enough to understand what I was saying — and I mean it: There’s not a single thing a man can do that a woman can’t do as well or better. Not a single thing. I was among the first senators ever to appoint a woman to the Naval Academy. I was just able to, as President of the United States, appoint two women as four-star generals, who now are combatant commanders. Three out of the six are combatant commanders, and they’re women. Women. There are so many, some in the Congress, who were jet fighter pilots flying at twice the speed of sound. So many doing so much. But this soccer team, America’s team, has done more to lift up people’s sense of who they can be, particularly young girls and women, above anything that’s been done. So, as President of the United States, I thank you. I thank you for the example you’ve set and for your willingness to say, “Look, we’re not going to take it anymore. We’re not going to take it.” Figuratively speaking, “You can take my trophies, but you can’t take my pride.” As I said, my dad used to say, “Joey, a job is…” — when he lost his job and had to get another one. We had to move. He’d say, “You know, Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your sense of yourself and your self-worth. It’s about your place in the community.” That’s what this is all about, and that’s why you guys are leading the way. And now it’s my great pleasure and honor — I’d like you to stand next to me, if you would, while I sign a proclamation making Equal Pay Day — naming it — an expression of our commitment to seek equal pay as we build back better and restore this economic growth. Thank you, folks. I’m going to sign it now. Come on over here. The title of the proclamation is “National Equal Pay Day 2021.” That’s what it says. Junior. My dad. He was a fine man. It says “Equal pay is a reminder of the work that still remains to advance equal — equality and ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to reach their full potential.” Like you guys. Thank you. Thanks, everybody. Well folks, today I have two announcements to make. One, is we’ve got ourselves a Secretary. Xavier, welcome. Thanks for being willing to do this, and I really appreciate. And also today, I’ve — I said when we became a team and got elected, that the Vice President was going to be the last person in the room. She didn’t realize that means she gets every assignment. But the Vice President and I, and all of us here, have been working very hard to — to pass the legislation that — that is going to beat this virus, as well as get people back to work and change their prospects. And so, she’s traveling all over the country working that. In addition to that, there’s about five other major things she’s handling, but I’ve asked her, the VP, today — because she’s the most qualified person to do it — to lead our efforts with Mexico and the Northern Triangle and the countries that help — are going to need help in stemming the movement of so many folks, stemming the migration to our southern border. And, you know, back when I was Vice President, I got a similar assignment, but one of the things we did was we made sure that we got a bipartisan agreement with Democrats and Republicans to provide over $700 million to the countries in the Northern Triangle to determine the best way to keep people from coming is keep them from wanting to leave. And the reason why so many people were leaving, we learned, was that not only gang violence and trafficking and cartels, but natural disasters, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes. And so it’s not like someone sits around a hand-hewnen [sic] — hand-hewn table somewhere in Guatemala and says, “I’ve got a great idea: Let’s sell everything we have, give the money to a coyote, have him take our kids or us to the border of America, take us across, leave us in the desert. We don’t speak the language. Won’t that be fun?” One of the ways we learned is that if you deal with the problems in country, it benefits everyone. It benefits us, it benefits the people, and it grows the economies there. Unfortunately, the last administration eliminated that funding — did not engage in it, did not use it — even though there was over $700 million to help get this done. We’re reinstituting that program. And there are — as I said, there are many factors as to why people leave in the first place. But this is — this is the — the source of one of the reasons why we’ve had such a — before we took office, in the midst of the last administration’s somewhat draconian policies of separating children from their parents, et cetera, what happened was that we — we found that there were a serious spike in the number of people heading to the southern border, even in the midst of that. And as — as Alejandro can tell you, is that was because there were serious natural disasters that occurred in those countries. They were coming north, and we did nothing to do any — much about it. So this new surge we’re dealing with now started with the last administration, but it’s our responsibility to deal with it humanely and to — and to stop what’s happening. And so, this increase has been consequential, but the Vice President has agreed — among the multiple other things that I have her leading — and I appreciate it — agreed to lead our diplomatic effort and work with those nations to accept re- — the returnees, and enhance migration enforcement at their borders — at their borders. We’re already talking with Mexico about that; she’s already done that. We’re going to be dealing with a full team now that we have to be able to deal with the problem here at home, but also to deal with it now in terms of in country. And I can think of nobody who — who is better qualified to do this than a former — this is a woman who ran the second-largest attorney general’s office in America — after the U.S. — after the United States Attorney General — in the state of California, and has done a great deal upholding human rights, but also fighting organized crime in the process. So it’s not her full responsibility and job, but she’s leading the effort because I think the best thing to do is to put someone who, when he or she speaks, they don’t have to wonder about is that where the President is. When she speaks, she speaks for me. Doesn’t have to check with me. She knows what she’s doing, and I hope we can move this along. But — so, Madam Vice President, thank you. I gave you a tough job, and you’re smiling, but there’s no one better capable of trying to organize this for us. Well, thank you for willing to do it. Now we’re going to get down to business here. And, Ron, who am I turning this over to? can’t hear a word you’re saying. I haven’t gotten the final report today. We haven’t used it at all. We have it available, but we haven’t used it. And I don’t know what’s — I’ve been gone all day. I don’t know what’s happened today. Pardon me? Not as of today. No, I haven’t. Thank you. Well, that — that depends on how — what is finally approved. Okay? Thank you. No. According to the Defense Department, it’s business as usual. There’s no new — there’s no new wrinkle in what they did. Good afternoon, almost getting into evening. Before I begin, as the congresswoman said, earlier today at the White House, I addressed the mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado. While the investigation is ongoing — and I spent time on the telephone with the Attorney General, as well as the head of the FBI, this — the investigation is still ongoing. My heart goes out to the families of the victims and the survivors. I want to — I want to commend the heroic actions of Officer Eric Talley — the father of seven children, who left for work yesterday morning assuming he’d be able to go home — and for the ultimate sacrifice for others. Now, let me turn to why I came today: to talk about, initially, the American Rescue Plan and the progress we’re making on tackling COVID. Tameka, thank you for sharing your stories and what you’re doing — my daughter is also a social worker, and you have a profound impact on people’s lives — and all you do to connect folks here in Ohio with the coverage and care they need. I want to thank Joyce, Congresswoman, for sticking with me during the day, and Marcy, my old friend — good to see you, Marcy. Thanks for being here. And Tim Ryan. I always kid with Tim. If you’re — if I got to be in a foxhole, he’s the guy I want to be with. He always keeps his word, does exactly what he says he’s going to do. And it’s great seeing you, Tim. My best to the family. And Madam President, thanks for having served in the Obama-Biden administration, and you’re doing an incredible job here. And all of the docs that are here that I got a chance to meet with today: Thank you. You are — you’re an incredible group of individuals. I also want thank Sherrod Brown — who wanted to be here today, but he had to be in Washington to cast important votes in the United States Senate. Look, I want everyone to be aware that there are three key parts to the American Rescue Plan all of my colleagues supported here. First, we’re going to more rapidly acquire — and we set out to more rapidly acquire enough vaccine to vaccinate every single American quicker than anticipated. And what my COVID team and — went through — and with the use of the Defense Production Act, we’ve been able to organize and help increase the number of doses in a much shorter time. So, by the end of May, we’re going to have on hand roughly 600 million doses — enough for every American. And the American Rescue Plan is also going to provide the funding for more vaccinations, vaccination sites, vaccinators, and the paraphernalia needed to put that vaccine in one’s arm. In addition, there is a second important piece of that plan. It’s focused on dealing with the economic deprivation so many Americans have become subject to — a consequence to this virus through no fault of their own. Millions have lost their jobs, and they’re still out of work. Around 11 million children in America are going hungry through no fault of their own. But as a result of the pandemic and the economic crisis, millions of Americans are not able to maintain their mortgage payments or rental payments and have found themselves on the verge of being evicted and having their homes repossessed. But we stepped in, and we prevented that from happening with the American Rescue Plan. Hundreds of thousands of businesses are now — not going to go under, but they’re going to have an idea — an opportunity to reopen and have the financial assistance to be able to do it the right way and safely. Schools closed and children losing up to a year or more in learning capacity. You’re ahead of the here in Ohio, but, across the nation, the help was badly needed, and we’ve now provided the funding for that. Because of isolation — and violence against women is up; abuse of children is up — and the need for mental health problems — to deal with mental health problems and the consequence of them is up, as a consequence of COVID. And, in addition to that, suicides are up. The second — so, second, the American Rescue Plan brings relief to a population that is badly hurting. And one more element of our response is that — first and foremost, is the commitment to get Americans a $1,400 check per person, including per child. So, a firefighter and school teacher making $120,000 combined, with two kids, are going to get a $5,6000 in cash. If they already have an account online with the IRS, which many do, by tomorrow, we will have distributed 100 million of those checks just since the legislation passed. We’re on the verge of doing that as of tomorrow. But for someone who doesn’t have direct deposit, they’re getting a check in the mail for all of that. So we expand the child — we also expanded the Childcare Tax Credit. Right now, if you file your federal income tax, you’ll get to a $2,000 deduction for every child you have. But if you’re making the minimum wage, you don’t earn enough to file for federal taxes. But because of the American Rescue Plan, if you have two children, for example, under the age of six, you’re going to get a check for $3,600 if you have a child. And so, if you have two children, $7,200 will be paid on a monthly basis. This is going to be life changing. It’s estimated this will do more to end child poverty in America than anything we’ve ever done. There’s the Earned Income Tax Credit. If you are over the age of 19 and not a fulltime student and you are a childless worker, now you will get a check for $1,500 if you file. Small businesses not only will be able to borrow money to keep business afloat, but get loan forgiveness in improving your business to get us back in the game. And, by the way, all of this — economists left, right, and center argue and acknowledge — will create 7 million more jobs and increase economic growth. Increase economic growth. There’s so much more, but help is here. But I’m here in this great hospital to talk about a third way to help. And that is for your health — the third type of help, and that’s healthcare. I just concluded a tour of the Radiation Oncology Department here at the James Cancer Center, which was expanded thanks to a $100 million grant in the Affordable Care Act that Sherrod Brown was instrumental in making happen. That’s in addition to the research funding Ohio State received under the Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot. Because of our investments, this department has gone from being able to treat 60 to 70 patients a day to nearly 300 a day. This place is a source of hope. I have said that I want to — when I ran, I said I wanted to be a President who would preside over the end of cancer as we know it. And when we see the strides we’ve made — you talk to the docs and researchers — I can tell you, it’s within our reach. We’re all benefited from the breakthroughs pioneered by the Defense Department, for example, research agency called DARPA, which helped bring us everything from the Internet to GPS. Well, I’m going to be proposing to my friends in Congress that we launch a similar operation at the Department of — at the Department of Health — a new effort called “ARPA-H” — to deliver health breakthroughs to find cures for cancer and other diseases by investing billions of dollars that companies are not willing to do — drug companies are not — don’t have the capacity. And I know we can do this. And I know we can find great breakthroughs. America does big things. Eleven years ago today, President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act — historic achievement that would not have been possible but for the vision and determination of one of the most successful Presidents in recent American history: Barack Obama. I might note, parenthetically, when I got in the automobile to go over to the — to the — to HHS, he was laughing. I didn’t know what he was laughing about. And he said, “Did you hear? They picked up what you said on the mic.” All I could think was, “Thank God my mother wasn’t around to hear it.” But, look, on this anniversary, we should remember just how close we have come to losing that act we so fought so hard for. And we have a duty not just to protect it, but to make it better and keep becoming a nation where healthcare is a right for all and not a privilege for a few. When I ran for pro- — for President, I promised I would build on the foundation of the Affordable Care Act. And just 50 days into my administration, we’ve delivered on that promise with the American Rescue Plan. It does that by making healthcare more affordable. It means better coverage and lower premiums for millions of Americans. If you’re enrolled in Obamacare, you’re going to save an average of $50 a month — $600 a year — by the reduction of payments. For a family of four earning $90,000 a year, that could save you $200 a month in savings. For a 60-year-old couple here in Ohio earning $75,000 per year, it could save them about $1,000 per month and to maintain the same healthcare. That’s $12,000 a year in your pocket that you didn’t have before. Because of the American Rescue Plan, if you lost healthcare because you lost your job or your hours were cut, we pay your contribution and your employer’s contribution under the so-called COBRA. That’s what your employer-based health insurance was. And so since — if they’ve gone out of business or you’re no longer there because you had to be laid off, you can stay covered for up to six months until you get back on your feet, because, look, the federal government will cover both ends of that COBRA payment. For millions who are out of work and have no coverage, thanks to this law, there’s an Obamacare plan that most folks can get with zero-dollar premiums. Co-pays will still be there, but zero-dollar premiums. Four out of five Americans shopping on the Obamacare marketplace can get quality healthcare with a premium of $10 a month or less. Let me say that again: Four out of five Americans who shop for a plan will find one for $10 or less per month. It’s especially important in communities that historically have gone without insurance at higher rates. Very few communities that have always faced health disparities — Black, Brown, and Asian, Native American communities — have borne the brunt of the COVID crisis. And we’re also making it easy to — easier to sign up for Obamacare. We’ve opened Healthcare.gov for special enrollment on February the 15th. In the first two weeks alone, more than 200,000 Americans gained coverage. Today I’m pleased to announce that we’ve extended that period to run through August the 15th. Just go to HealthCare.gov or call the national hotline: 1-800-318-2596. That’s 1-800-318-2596. A few clicks and a short conversation — that’s all it takes to start seeing these benefits of increased coverage and lower premiums. I’ll close with this: With the American Rescue Plan and the Affordable Care Act, millions of families will be able to sleep a little more soundly at night because they don’t have to worry about losing everything if they get sick. I, like many of you, grew up in a middle-class — I guess, technically, lower-middle-class — household based on outcome. We lived in a three-bedroom split-level home with four kids and our grandpop living with us. And the paper — the walls were paper-thin. I can remember lying in bed and hearing my dad rolling back and forth, and I could tell there was something wrong. I remember asking my mom the next morning, “What’s the matter with Dad?” She said, “Honey, he’s just worried. We just lost our health insurance. He no longer has his coverage.” People lying in bed wondering, “My God, what happens? What happens if, in fact, I get sick? What happens if I turn and she has breast cancer or I end up with a heart condition? What happens?” And God forbid you’re sitting on the edge of a hospital bed with someone you love — like I did with my son, Beau, as he was dying, and all you have to think about is — all they have they have to think about is getting better, not what happens if an insurance company can come in, like they did before Obamacare, and say, “Sorry, you’ve outrun your coverage.” I used to sit there and think, “My God, what would happen? What would I do?” That’s the difference. And we’re going to keep building until every American has that peace of mind and to show that our government can fulfill its most essential purpose: to care for and protect the American people. When we work together, we can do big things, important things, necessary things. We saw it 11 years ago with the Affordable Care Act. We saw it 11 days ago when we marked the signing of the American Rescue Plan. But we’re not done yet. Last week, we met my goal that I announced of administering 100 million shots in my first 100 days in office. At the time, the press said that’s awfully “audacious.” Now that we’ve done it in 58 days, they’re saying, “Boy, he sure set the bar awful low.” Well, this week, we’re announcing a new goal: to get more people vaccinated. But we need all Americans to keep washing your hands, staying socially distanced, and wearing the mask when you’re in public, as recommended by the CDC. And get vaccinated when it’s your turn. It’s a patriotic responsibility you have. Now is not the time to let down our guard. If we all do our part, after a long, dark year, we can show once again that we are the United States of America; that there’s nothing we have — cannot do if we do it together. We’re going to beat this pandemic. And because of the great docs up this staircase here, we’re going to beat cancer as we know it as well. We’re going to make sure, once and for all, that healthcare is a right, not a privilege, in this nation. So I want to say to, again, the docs who spent the day with me, all the incredible work you’re doing — I told them that when my son contracted stage four glioblastoma when coming home from Iraq — when he was in Iraq, that I had the opportunity — the President asked me to do what they called a Cancer Moonshoot. I put together an organization made up of seven Nobel laureates, as well as another 30 docs in the cancer field, and I was able to go and visit every major cancer facility in the world save one. And we have some of the finest minds in the world, and they’re right here — right here at Ohio State — Ohio State. Right here in Ohio, right here in the United States of America. And they break their necks every single day for us. We owe them. I want to thank you all. May God bless you. May God bless us all and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you for the hospitality. Yeah, I was. It was a foreign policy issue. Well, I don’t know what you’re — We — we have the most diverse Cabinet in history. We have a lot of Asian Americans who are in the Cabinet and sub-Cabinet levels. Our Cabinet is formed. I’ll have more to say about that in the next couple of days. The key here relates to what’s happening in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. And the last administration dismantled all we had put in place, relative to dealing with the problems in country. And we’ll have something to say about that very shortly. I’ll more to say about that tomorrow and the next day. We have learned that there is nothing much has changed. Thank you. It’s — it’s mostly hopeful because I don’t want to see anybody go through what my son went through. One of the things you should be aware of: There are probably more soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines coming home with brain cancers than any time in American history because of exposure. Some of you have read about the burn pits. There’s a lot of research that still has to be done to determine whether or not exposure to these toxins in the air have something to do with it. Also, you have an awful lot of these IEDs have caused brain trauma in other ways as well. So, it really is something that I think is going to encourage us to spend a lot more time in the government focusing on. A little bit like, you know, what used to have to — with Agent Orange: You’d have to prove that, even though you were drenched in it and it rained on you, that whatever your problem was was a consequence of that. It was very hard to prove. I finally got a bill passed, as a senator, saying, if you were drenched, you’re automatically assumed — whatever your problem is, related to that. Same thing now with an IED. If you were near a concussion, you have a problem with — it’s assumed the government has responsibility for it. And — but there’s a lot going on, and the Doc could tell you more. But one of things that really excites me, Doc, is the idea that we’re moving into potential immunotherapy initiatives that — what they did with Beau, they injected an adenovirus into the brain. And it — they were — they were giddy, initially, at all of the — the human body coming in to eat up the virus, but it just kept going. And because there had been some damage from radiation on a blood vessel, it — things got — it didn’t work. But there’s real hope for people. There’s real hope. Yeah, I agree with that. Not that I agree. I don’t mean like — as if I — matters what I agree on. Explain the difference between a proton and radiation going — It’s really important. Treating normal tissue sometimes is a very bad thing. Just — it also — it can destroy a normal tissue. It can destroy the cancer — hit that — but it goes through the cancer and destroys whatever is beyond it. Not just in the brain, but wherever it — And so that’s why I — I think some of the — a few of the Nobel laureates on my cancer facility are — would argue that we should get — we should start to focus on protons. And because it doesn’t have the same application, but it does less damage when it occurs — when there is damage done. And — but it really is one of my regrets of becoming President: I had to give up the Biden Cancer Initiative because I couldn’t raise any money for it. But we proposed — there’s literally six Nobel laureates on the board. A group — a group of people that are like the Doc. I tried — I almost called you to ask for you — it’s a long story but — And — but it is something that there’s a lot — these guys are on the edge of so many things. Think about it: Jimmy Carter was declared basically gone five times. Now, he’s in trouble now, but it’s amazing that — you know, it’s a little bit like — it’s why you should never give up hope. When the breakthrough comes, it just comes through. Not planned — it’s just, “Woah, we got it.” Anyway. I’m talking too much. I hope so. I don’t know. I haven’t done any counting yet. There’s still a great deal we don’t know about the killer and the motivation of the killer in Boulder, Colorado, and other critical aspects of this mass shooting. I’ve been briefed this morning by the Attorney General of the United States, the Director of the FBI. I’ve spoken with the governor, and I’ll be speaking with the mayor on the aircraft. We’re working very closely with the state and local law enforcement officials, and they’re going to keep me updated as they learn more. You’re going to ask me to speculate — understandably, you’re going to ask me to speculate on what happened, why it happened. And I’m not going to do that now because we don’t have all the information — not until I have all the facts. But I do know this: As President, I can use all the resources at my disposal to keep the American people safe. As I said: At this moment, a great deal remains unknown. But three things are certain. First, 10 lives have been lost, and more families have been shattered by gun violence in the state of Colorado. And Jill and I are devastated. And the feeling — I just can’t imagine how the families are feeling — the victims whose futures were stolen from them, from their families, from their loved ones who now have to struggle to go on and try to make sense of what’s happened. Less than a week after the horrific murders of eight people and the assault on the AAPI community in Georgia, while the flag was still flying half-staff for the tragedy, another American city has been scarred by gun violence and the resulting trauma. And the state that — I even hate to say it because we’re saying it so often: My heart goes out. Our hearts go out for the survivors. The — who had to — had to flee for their lives and who hid, terrified, unsure if they would ever see their families again, their friends again. The consequences of all this are deeper than I suspect we know. By that, I mean the mental consequences — a feeling of — anyway, it just — we’ve been through too many of these. The second point I want to make is: My deepest thanks to the heroic police and other first responders who acted so quickly to address the situation and keep the members of their community safe. To state the obviously — the obvious, I commend the exceptional bravery of Officer Eric Talley. I send my deepest condolences to his family — his close, close family and seven children. You know, when he pinned on that badge yesterday morning, he didn’t know what the day would bring. I want everybody to think about this: Every time an officer walks out of his or her home and pins that badge on, a family member that they just said goodbye to wonders whether they’ll — subconsciously — will they get that call. The call that his wife got. He thought he’d be coming home to his family and his seven children. But when the moment to act came, Officer Talley did not hesitate in his duty, making the ultimate sacrifice in his effort to save lives. That’s a definition of an American hero. And thirdly, I want to be very clear — this is the one thing I do know enough to say on it, in terms of what’s happened there: While we’re still waiting for more information regarding the shooter; his motive; the weapons he used — the guns, the magazines, the weapons, and the modifications that apparently have taken place to those weapons that are involved here — I don’t need to wait another minute, let alone an hour, to take commonsense steps that will save the lives in the future and to urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to act. We can ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines in this country once again. I got that done when I was a senator. It passed. It was law for the longest time, and it brought down these mass killings. We should do it again. We can close the loopholes in our background check system, including the “Charleston loophole.” That’s one of the best tools we have right now to prevent gun violence. The Senate should immediately pass — let me say it again: The United States Senate — I hope some are listening — should immediately pass the two House-passed bills that close loopholes in the background check system. These are bills that received votes of both Republicans and Democrats in the House. This is not and should not be a partisan issue; this is an American issue. It will save lives — American lives — and we have to act. We should also ban assault weapons in the process. I’ll have much more to say as we learn more, but I wanted to be clear: Those poor folks who died left behind families — that leaves a big hole in their hearts. And — and we can save lives increasing the background checks so that they’re supposed to occur, and eliminating assault weapons and the size of magazines. We don’t know all the detail yet on that. But I’ll be talking to you more later today or in the next couple of days about what else we know. May God bless you all and those families who are mourning today because of gun violence in Colorado and Georgia and all across the country. We have to act so there’s not more of you — there’s fewer of you, as time goes on. Thank you so much. I’ll talk to you about that later. Thank you. At some point, I will. Yes. I know what’s going on in those facilities. A lot more. We’re in the process of doing it now, including making sure that we reestablish what existed before, which was they can stay in place and make their case from their home country. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Sorry we’re a little late, but we had an opportunity to meet with leaders of the AAPI community downstairs, and it was heart wrenching to listen to them. As many of you know, we originally planned to hold a car rally to thank our supporters. But given the recent days –events of recent days, we didn’t feel it was appropriate, so we cancelled that rally. But we want our supporters to know we’ll come back and hold that rally another trip. But today, we want to speak about something else. I said from the beginning of my campaign for President that we needed to come together; that we needed to unite as one people, one nation, one America. I said in my kickoff speech in Philadelphia. I said that very same thing when I spoke at Gettysburg. I said that in my inaugural address. And I believe it with every fiber of my being. There are simply some core values and beliefs that should bring us together as Americans. One of them is standing together against hate, against racism — the ugly poison that has long haunted and plagued our nation. The Vice President and I, as I said, met a little bit earlier, just before this, with leaders from the Asian American community here in Georgia. We talked about Tuesday’s mass shooting, about another example of public health crisis, of gun violence in this country. Eight people killed, seven women. Six were of Asian descent. All fellow Americans. Each one of them we mourn. Their families are left with broken hearts and unanswered questions. And the investigation is ongoing. And the Vice President and I are being regularly updated by the Attorney General and the Director of the FBI, working closely with Governor Kemp and Mayor Bottoms and local officials. But whatever the motivation, we know this: Too many Asian Americans have been walking up and down the streets and worrying, waking up each morning the past year feeling their safety and the safety of their loved ones are at stake. They’ve been attacked, blamed, scapegoated, and harassed. They’ve been verbally assaulted, physically assaulted, killed. Documented incidents against — of hate against Asian Americans have seen a skyrocketing spike over the last year, let alone the ones that happened and never get reported. It’s been a year of living in fear for their lives just to walk down the street. Grandparents leave — to leave — afraid to leave their homes. Small-business owners targeted and gunned down. Attacks on some of the most vulnerable people in our nation — the elderly, low-wage workers, and women. In fact, Asian American women suffer twice as many incidents of harassment and violence as Asian American men. We’re learning again what we’ve always known: Words have consequences. It’s the coro- — it’s the coronavirus. Full stop. The conversation we had today with the AAPI leaders, and that we’re hearing all across the country, is that hate and violence often hide in plain sight. And it’s often met with silence. That’s been true throughout our history, but that has to change — because our silence is complicity. We cannot be complicit. We have to speak out. We have to act. In my first week in office, I signed an executive order directing federal agencies to combat this resurgence of xenophobia. The Department of Justice is strengthening its partnership with the AAPI community to prevent these crimes, in addition to its other work to take on violent extremism and domestic terrorism. I’m calling on Congress to pass and get my — to get to my desk the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act. And the House just passed the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, a law I authored more than 25 years ago and is one of my proudest legislative achievements. I call on the Senate to swiftly pass it and get it to my desk. But for all the good that laws can do, we have to change our hearts. Hate can have no safe harbor in America. It must stop. And it’s on all of us — all of us, together — to make it stop. Something else should bring us together, and that is a belief in science. Science isn’t something that should divide us. There’s nothing political about it. There’s nothing partisan about it. One of America’s best examples of commitment to science is headquartered right here in Atlanta: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC represent the best of this nation: brilliant minds, deep faith in science, and a strong commitment to public service. We came here to thank them for all the work they do, and especially the work they’ve done over the course of this pandemic. We owe them and their families our gratitude. And we wanted to convey to them the absolute commitment to give them everything they need to do their work and get it done — free of politics and guided by science. And because of them, we’re making real progress. We just met my goal of administering 100 million shots before my first 100 days in office. We did it in about 60 days. We’re not stopping now. The American Rescue funds more vaccines, more vaccination centers, and more increases in testing. It’s going to help us accelerate our nationwide effort to reopen schools safely. Last week, I directed all states, Tribes, and territories to make all adults eligible to be vaccinated no later than May 1. But while this is a time of optimism, it’s not a time for relaxation. I need all Americans to keep doing your part: wash your hands, stay socially distanced, keep masking up as recommended by the CDC, and get vaccinated when it’s your turn. None of this is political. It’s all science-based. But now is not the time to let down our guard down. That’s science-based as well. In the last week, we’ve seen — we’ve seen increases in the number of cases in several states. Things may get worse as new variants of the virus spread. That’s why we need to vaccinate as many people as quickly as we possibly can, because it’s the best thing we can do to fight back against these variants. We will do — we have to beat this virus. We have to, and we will. But we’ll do it by setting aside politics and embracing science. On another subject, the right to vote — that should bring us together as well, but it now divides us. This is a democracy, and the right to vote is fundamental. The fact that there was a record turnout in America in the last election, in the midst of a pandemic, should be something we celebrated, not attacked. The fact that you held a free and fair election in Georgia that stood up to recount after recount, court case after court case, is something you should be proud of. The fact that your poll workers, your election workers, your volunteers, your local officials, your state officials, your courts stood up to the immense pressure with character and honesty and integrity helped save our democracy. And this country will long be grateful for it. But as this state, home to Martin Luther King and John Lewis, knows better than most: The battle for the right to vote is never, ever over. And it’s not over here, in this state of Georgia. So we’re in the fight again. It’s a fight we need to win. Because if anyone ever doubted that voting matters, Georgia just proved it did. If anyone ever wondered if one vote can make a difference, Georgia just proved it 11,779 times. And if anyone ever wondered if voting can change a country, Georgia just proved it can. Because when you elected two new United States senators, you made it possible to pass the American Rescue Plan. Landmark legislation will not only meet the emergency we’re in, but transform this nation — starting with this: For those folks who either already have or will soon have $1,400 in their pockets, you can thank Senators Warnock and Ossoff. But for their votes, it would not have happened. What does that mean? It means 85 percent of the households in America will get that money. Here in Georgia, it means 88 percent of all adults and 88 percent of the children in this state will get that $1,400 as well. Just add it up. A typical family — two parents, two kids — earning $100,000 a year, each will get $1,400. That’s $5,600 for that family that’s in distress trying to figure out how to pay their mortgage, pay their rent, keep food on the table. And that’s not all. There’s something called a “child tax credit.” What that basically means is you get a tax credit for every child you have. The American Rescue Plan expands that credit. It means that families of over 2 million children in Georgia will be eligible for an increase in that child tax credit of [up to] $1,600 per year [sic] — per child. And it’s going to be delivered on a regular basis. So, starting this summer, families with young kids will get $300 a month per child. This is going to lift 177,000 [171,000] children in Georgia out of poverty. The American Rescue Plan expands coverage and reduces costs under the Affordable Care Act. So for a family of four earning $90,000 per year, with insurance under the Affordable Care Act, they’ll see about $200 a month off their monthly premiums. And for Georgia’s schools, the American Rescue Plan provides around $4 billion for Georgia’s schoolchildren, grades K through 12, to help them reopen safely. And here’s one of the biggest things for Georgia: Because of the American Rescue Plan, Georgia is now eligible for about $2 billion to expand Medicaid. What does that mean? It means another 500,000 Georgians will be covered all across this state with Medicaid that don’t have it now. For your state and local governments, this is what it does: State government will get around $5 billion to make up for lost revenue. Local governments will get around $3.5 billion. That’s going to make it possible to keep a lot of police officers, firefighters, teachers, and other first responders on the job. And here’s one final thing the American Rescue Plan does: For the first time in a long time, it puts the working families, the middle class — people who built this country — first, not last. Sixty-six percent of the tax breaks in this plan go to folks making $90,000 or less a year. And how much for the top 1 percent — where 83 percent of all of the tax cut — it was the last President’s tax cut? Zero. The top 1 percent get zero. But the American Rescue Plan isn’t only about putting money in the pockets — people’s pockets. It also will create and spur economic growth in America. That’s why major economists — left, right, and center — support this plan. Even Wall Street agrees. According to Moody’s, this law will help America create 7 million new jobs by the end of the year. And we’ll do it by rebuilding the backbone of this nation: the working people, the middle class — the people who built this country. It’s about giving those people a fair shot, for a change. It’s about providing and proving to the American people that their government works and can deliver for them, which brings me to my last point. The American Rescue Plan is a plan that brings America together and benefits all America. That’s why so many polls show that over 70 percent of the country support it, including Democrats, Republicans, and independents. Maybe Republicans in Washington didn’t vote for it, but the American Rescue Plan sure has brought the country together. And, for me, that measure of unity, that’s what matters. Let me end with this: There is so much we can do if we do it together; if we remember who we are; if we stand together against hate; once again believe and invest in science; if we stand up for the right of all Americans to vote and have access to voting; if we remember we’re here to help all the people of this country, not just those few at the top; if we remember to do justice, love mercy, to walk humbly as fellow human beings and as fellow Americans; if we remember we’re the United States of America and that, together, there is nothing — not a single thing — we cannot do if we do it together. My heart goes out to all — all the family members who lost someone in those horrific shootings on Tuesday. I know they feel that — like there’s a black hole in their chest they’re being sucked into and things will never get better. But our prayers are with you. And I assure you the one you’ve lost will always be with you. Always be with you. And the day will come when their memory brings a smile to your lips before it brings a tear to your eye, as unbelievable as that is now. It will take a while, but I promise you it will come. And when it does, that’s the day you know you’re going to make it. May God bless all those families. May God protect our troops. Thank you very much. You know, one of the things that caught my attention — and I think we talked about this very early on, within the first six weeks of the virus becoming where it — everybody, and people starting to get sick, and some of them die. And — was I got a call from a mayor — a really great guy, a real hardworking fellow in Detroit — saying to me, “Mr. President, you don’t understand.” This was even before — I wasn’t President then, actually. He called me, “Mr. Vice President.” He said, “You know, I don’t think people understand. You know, my community is now about 80 percent African American. And we’re dying and getting sick at a much higher rate than the white community here, or any other community.” And I brought that up, initially, before I put together that group that you’re leading and helping lead, and no one wanted to hear it. And I remember they — we had trouble getting your predecessors to track it. But what you’re doing really makes a difference. It makes a gigantic difference. As the Vice President knows as well or better than anybody, it really, really makes a difference. So, thank you. No, but why are y’all standing? That’s the first one. You don’t have to stand for us. Why don’t you sit down? For real. Get comfortable. No, they have chairs. They have chairs. But, you know, that’s — that’s the first question. And the second question is, why did only one person clap? I don’t know. They might take that . You know what I mean? I’m teasing. I’m teasing. The reason I do this, as the Doc knows — you all are too serious here — we owe you a gigantic debt of gratitude, and we will for a long, long, long time, because I hope this is the beginning of the end of not paying attention to what’s going to come again and again and again and again. We can build all the walls we want. We can have the most powerful armies in the world, but we can’t — but we cannot stop — we cannot stop these viruses, other than be aware of where they are and move quickly on them when we find them. And the one thing that I — the reason I am so, so happy to have been able to — anyway — to have Doc here is that science is back. No, all kidding aside. Think about it: For the longest time, not just — not just as it relates to CDC, but science — science was viewed as — as sort of an appendage to anything else we were talking about. But it’s back. And I just want you to have some confidence that it’s not only — are the Vice President and I and the whole team, and the whole COVID team writ-large committed, but the American people have moved. The American people have moved. This is a bipartisan effort now. Now, it isn’t showing itself in the way senators and congressmen vote, but the public — the public. We were talking about it on a — on a helicop- — on the airplane. The public, in a bipartisan way. When I came up with this $1.9 billion for this whole COVID — and the economic relief side of it as well — we were told that it could never pass; we’d never get any help. Well, we didn’t get any help in the Senate or the House, but you have 55 percent of the Republicans in America supporting it. You have 90-some percent of the Democrats, 80-some — The point is, the public is thankful to you, because it’s about science. That’s what they understand. They understand. And we’re not going back to the old days. Even if tomorrow the whole administration changed, I think things have — you’ve changed things. You’ve changed them in a way that are going to make everybody healthier in this country. And when we have a crisis, you’re prepared to meet it because you speak truth and science to power, and that is — that is the power. So, to all of the folks listening — I guess you said there’s hundreds or if not thousands of people listening: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There’s an entire generation coming up that is learning from what you’ve done. I don’t just mean learning about how to deal with a virus. Learning about it makes a difference to tell the truth, to follow the science, and just wherever it takes you, and just be honest about it. And that’s what you’ve all done. So we owe you a debt of gratitude in all the lives you’ve saved. I carry in my pocket — and the Doc knows — on the back of my schedule, I have listed every single day with the exact number of people who have died from COVID the day before. I mean for cumulative. We’re at 535,217 dead as of yesterday, last night. It’s got to stop. But you’re slowing it. It’s stopping. And it really, really matters. You know, that’s more people than have died in all of World War — Americans — all of World War One, World War Two, the Vietnam War, and 9/11 combined — combined — in a year. In a year. And you are the Army. You’re the Navy. You’re the Marines. You’re the Coast Guard. I really mean it. This is a war. You are the frontline troops. It sounds silly to say it that way. It sounds sort of grand. But think about it. And, finally, we got the vaccines. We got the companies together. And then they didn’t have the wherewithal to be able to produce all the vaccines. So there’s a thing called the Defense Production Act. As President, I’m allowed to enforce it. So I had people saying, “Stop making that, and start making these.” We finally put together — did you ever think you’d see the day — because you’ve all been involved with medicine — see two major drug companies cooperate for the good of the country? One invent — one come up with the drug, and the other say, “Well, we’ll manufacture it for you”? So what — what you’re doing really, really, really matters, not only — and I’ll end with this — not only in saving lives, but changing the mindset of the country. Changing the mindset of the country. And it’s affected everything, not just affected people’s health. It’s affected their attitude — the attitude about what we can do as a country. Everybody thought that I was — I didn’t quite understand when I announced that we were going to — we had over 100 million shots in less than — you remember when I said we’re going to — my goal was to have 100 million shots in people’s arms in the first 100 days as President? And everybody said, “Oh, that sounds — yeah, right.” Now it’s, “He should have been more — have been, you know…” “Why didn’t they say more?” You know what I mean? But here’s the point: The point is that it is changing the way we look at a whole range of things. And when I announced it, everybody but the Vice President wondered why I also pointed out that we landed a rover on Mars at the same time: Because this is the United States of America, for God’s sake. There is nothing, nothing, nothing we cannot do when we do it together. And that’s what you’re showing everybody. So I came to say thank you. I really mean it. I have a whole lot of nice notes on here about the science, but — — but I came here to say thank you, because you’re not only — you’re changing the psyche of the country. You’re saving lives. You’re saving lives. But you’re changing the psyche of the country. And this is, as I said — it’s not being — I don’t — I don’t think we’re being chauvinistic about our country, but this is — think about it: We’re the only country in the world that has, every time we’ve gone into a crisis, have come out stronger immediately after the crisis than when we went in before the crisis. Think about it. It’s about who we are. Closing comment: I was with Xi Jinping — China. I spent more time with him, I’m told, than any world leader — because when he was Vice President, I was Vice President. His President and mine wanted us to get to know one another because it was clear he was going to become the President. And I spent — traveled 17,000 miles with him in China, in the United States, and Asia generally, and met with him, I guess, they tell me, 24, 25 hours alone, just me and an interpreter, and he and an interpreter. And, by the way, I handed in all my notes. Minor point. But all kidding aside, he asked me — we were on the Tibetan Plateau. He asked me and said to me, “Can you define America for me?” And I said, “Yeah, in one word. And I mean it — in one word: possibilities.” Possibilities. That’s what you guys believe in: possibilities, based on science and hard data. And so I just thank you for not only your intellectual skills, but your heart — your heart, your determination. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I shouldn’t have done that because I wanted to yield to my Vice President, who’s smarter than I am. Oh, just sorry. Well, folks, good to see you all. When I announced in early December that I had goal that I set of administering 100 million shots for the virus in the first 100 days of our office — 100 million shots in 100 days — it was considered ambitious. Some even suggested it was somewhat audacious. Experts said that it was a — the plan was, quote, “definitely aggressive,” and distribution would have to be “seamless” for us to be successful. One headline simply put it, quote: “It won’t be easy.” End of quote. Well, it wasn’t. When I took office, when we took office, there was a lot that had to be done. We needed more vaccines, more vaccinators, more places for people to get vaccinated. And we needed a whole-of-government approach. So, I directed Jeff Zients, the coordinator of our COVID-19 response, to put us on a war footing — and I meant that in a literal sense — to get us on track to truly beat this virus. And I’m proud to announce that tomorrow, 58 days into our administration, we will have met my goal of administering 100 million shots to our fellow Americans. That’s weeks ahead of schedule, and even with the setbacks we faced during the winter storms. And it’s another big step on the path to checking the — putting checks in pockets and shots in people’s arms. When we crossed the 50 million doses just three weeks ago, I told you that every time we hit the 50 million mark, I’d update you on our progress. So here is where we are today: Eight weeks ago, only 8 percent of seniors, those most vulnerable to COVID-19, had received a vaccination. Today, 65 percent of people aged 65 or older have received at least one shot, and 36 percent are fully vaccinated. And that’s key — because this is a population that represents 80 percent of the well over 500,000 COVID-19 deaths that have occurred in America. We have nearly doubled the amount of vaccine doses that we distribute to states, Tribes, and territories each week. We have gone from 1 million shots a day — that I promised in December, before we were even sworn in — to an average of two and one half million shots a day, outpacing the rest of the world significantly. And here’s how we accomplished this: Using the power given to a President under the Defense Production Act, we expedited critical materials in vaccine production, such as equipment, machinery, and supplies. We worked with vaccine manufacturers to speed up the delivery of millions more doses and brokered a historic manufacturing partnership between competing companies who put patriotism and public health first. These steps put us on track to have enough vaccine — enough vaccine supply for every adult American by the end of May — months — months earlier than anyone expected. And we stood up or supplied more than 600 community vaccination sites that are administering hundreds of thousands of shots per day. We launched the Federal Pharmacy Program, which has allowed millions of Americans to get a shot at one of one thous- — or, excuse me, one of 14,000 local pharmacies in this country, the same way they get their flu shot. And for folks who aren’t near a pharmacy or mass vaccination center, we’ve supplied more than 500 mobile clinics, like pop-up sites or vans, meeting people where they are — meeting people where they are. We’ve developed nearly — we’ve deployed nearly 6,000 federal personnel, including FEMA, active-duty military, and Department of Health and Human Services to support vaccinations and serve as vaccinators — putting the needle in people’s arms. We’re also supplying vaccines to community health centers to reach those who have been the hardest hit — the hardest hit — and suffered the most, especially Black, Latino, Native American, and rural communities. This is really important — because we believe that speed and efficiency must be matched with fairness and equity. Now, when [Vice] President Harris and I took a virtual tour of a vaccination center in Arizona not long ago, one of the nurses on that — on that tour, injecting people, giving vaccinations, said that each shot was like administering a dose of hope. “A dose of hope.” That’s how she phrased it. Behind these 100 million shots are millions of lives changed when people receive that dose of hope: Grandparents can hug their grandchildren again. Frontline workers who can show up at their jobs without the same fear they used to have. Teachers — with the confidence to head back into the classroom. These milestones are significant accomplishments, but we have much more to do. Much more to do. And the American Rescue Plan will help us do it. In addition to the cash payments it provides to you and your families, it also provides the funds to add vaccinators, to supply [sic] more community vaccination — support more community vaccination centers, and increase testing. It will help us accelerate nationwide efforts to reopen our schools safely. And as I told the nation last week, I’ve directed all states, Tribes, and territories to make all adults eligible to be vaccinated no later than May the 1st. I’m glad to see that several states are already taking that step to make more and more Americans eligible, even before May 1st. Tomorrow, we will hit 100 million doses our administration has administered. But I’ve always said: That’s just the floor. We will not stop until we beat this pandemic. Next week, I will announce our next goal to put shots in arms. This is a time for optimism, but it’s not a time for relaxation. I need all Americans — I need all of you to do your part: Wash your hands, stay socially distanced, keep masking up as recommended by the CDC, and get vaccinated when it’s your turn. Now is not the time to let down our guard. In the last week, we’ve seen increases in the number of cases in several states. Scientists have made clear that things may get worse as new variants of this virus spread. Getting vaccinated is the best thing we can do to fight back against these variants. While millions of people are vaccinated, we need millions more to be vaccinated. And, again, I need you to get vaccinated when it come– when it’s your turn, when you’re able to do that. I need your help. I need you to help — not just the country, but your family, your friends, your neighbors. Get them vaccinated as well. If we keep our guard up, stick together, and stick with the science, we can look forward to a Fourth of July that feels a bit more normal, with small groups able to gather for cookouts in backyards, and when we’ll be — where we begin to declare our independence on Independence Day from the virus. Look, together — together we’re going to come through this stronger, with renewed faith in each other, in our government that fulfills its most important function: protecting the American people. Let me be clear again: wearing this mask, in the meantime; making sure you wash your hands; making sure you socially distance and listen to the CDC. We’ve got to reach the point where we have herd immunity — meaning where we have a vast majority of the American people have been vaccinated — before we can stop wearing these. So, please, please, don’t let what’s happening — you see happening in Europe and you see on television. Keep the faith. Keep wearing the mask, keep washing your hands, and keep socially distanced. We’re going to beat this. We’re way ahead of schedule, but we’ve got a long way to go. So I just wanted to bring you up to date. And I thank you very much. And may God bless America, and may God protect our troops. Thank you so much. I’m going to make a brief opening statement about a current thing going on in the United States here, and that is the shooting down in Atlanta where eight people were killed and — seven women, six of Asian American background. And I was just, on the telephone, briefed by the Attorney General of the United States and the Director of the FBI. And the investigation is ongoing and the question of motivation is still to be determined. But whatever the motivation here, I know that Asian Americans are in very — very concerned because, as you know, I’ve been speaking about the brutality against Asian Americans for the last couple months, and I think it’s a — it is very, very troublesome. And — but I’m making no connection at this moment for the motivation of what the — of the killer. I’m waiting for an answer from — as the investigation proceeds, from the FBI and from the Justice Department. So — and that’s — so I’ll have more to say when the investigation is completed. Now, I want to say Happy St. Patrick’s Day to the Taoiseach. It’s good to — it’s good to have you on television. But next year, in Washington — next year, in Washington — for years, as you know, Taoiseach, we — we celebrated this — this St. Patrick’s Day. I always put on a breakfast at my home, and — at the Vice President’s Residence — with leading Irish Americans, your ambassador, our ambassador, as well as some of the prelates who were involved with this. And it was always a good time. Then we’d go into this very office. You’d sit in the chair over here — the Taoiseach would sit there. And I’d sit where — where the — my National Security Advisor is sitting, and we’d have a long discussion with the President. And then we’d go up to the — up to the United States Capitol where the Speaker of the House, starting with Tip O’Neill, would put on an event as well. And then I always snuck over to the Irish Embassy later. I hope we can do that next year. I hope we can do that next year. And in the meantime, I want to thank you for the shamrock bowl. I don’t know whether you can see it here, but it’s a great tradition — a custom that goes all the way back to Harry Truman, who — I have a bust of Harry Truman over in that corner. I noticed he didn’t move to grab any of the — any of the shamrocks, but — And tonight, Taoiseach, I wish you — we hope you’ll be able to see it, at least remotely. We’re going to light up the — the White House in green. And we — to celebrate the deep, deep affection that the — we Americans have, particularly Irish Americans have for Ireland and the people of Ireland. And that includes millions of Americans like my — like my great-great-grandfather and my great-grandfather and my grandfather, all of whom were Irish Americans on both sides of the family. My — my grandfather, Ambrose Finnegan, who was a great football player — American football — and a newspaper man back at the turn of the 19th — of the 20th century, used to always say when — later when he was much older and I’d walk out of his home, he’d say, “Joey, remember: The best drop of blood in you is Irish.” I remembered it, I promise you. And — because if I didn’t, my grandmother, Geraldine Blewitt Finnegan, would take me down. And we have a lot of great memories as well in our family because one of your predecessors — I went over. I’ve been to Ireland many times, but the first time I went to actually go back and look at my roots and meet my family was — was back when — the last year we were — I was Vice President of the United States. And we went both to — to Mayo, where the Blewitts are from, and Ballina, the city; and we went to County Louth, where the Finnegans are from. And it was a great, great opportunity for me to show my grandchildren and children and my brother and sister. I joked at the time, but I — after I left, I wondered why the hell we left in the first place. It’s beautiful. It’s beautiful. And so, I think, you know, there’s a lot of folks here in Ireland — my — my friends from Ireland would always say the American Irish think they’re more Irish than the Irish. But the truth of the matter is that we have a great affection for the country and a great affection for the tradition. And we have a — Ireland and United States have a robust agenda that we got to deal with on the substantive side of this — of these issues, Taoiseach, and — from combating COVID, to strengthening global health security, to also discussing our economic cooperation and Ireland’s leadership now in the U.N. Security Council, which we’re working together. Our U.N. Ambassador is online with us here. And I just welcome the leadership and your partnership. And you know my view and the view of my predecessor, my — of the Obama-Biden administration on the Good Friday Agreements. We strongly support them; think it’s critically important that they be maintained. And the political and economic stability of Northern Ireland is very much in the interest of all our peoples — the people-to-people ties. And I think the idea that we — we talked about, about renewing our partnership and the All-Island Consortium — Cancer Consortium. The U.S.-Ireland and Northern Ireland — it’s a partnership that’s — that I think we can learn a lot from one another. It’s one of the things that, as President, Taoiseach, I am going to focus heavily on with our National Institute of Health: on dealing with — with cancer. We’ve all been victims of it, in terms of our families. We all know what it’s like. And we’re going to make major investments in NIH and cancer research and development. And I’m looking forward to working together. As a matter of fact, my relatives in — in Mayo just dedicated a — my — Laurita, one of my cousins, headed up the hospice effort for cancer — not just cancer, but hospice in — in Ireland. And they just dedicated a new significant facility to my son Beau Biden, who — who died of cancer. And so, everything between Ireland and the United States runs deep, Taoiseach. Our — our joys, our sorrows, our passion, our drive, and our unrelenting optimism and hope. One of the few quotes that I’ve been given credit for over my career was, I said — but I mean it — maybe it’s just my family — I said, “We Irish are the only people who are nostalgic for the future.” And I think we are. It’s a — it’s a great — a great opportunity for you and I to get to talk a little bit. So I’m looking forward to our conversation, and I’m looking forward to getting deeper into discussion about some of the things that are of great mutual interest to both of us. But as we used to say in the United States Senate, Taoiseach, “I yield the floor to you.” Thank you. It will. I look forward to it as well. As I said, this is a great outfit. This is a union shop. These are people who work like the devil, and they can make a living wage, a decent wage. But 300,000 Pennsylvanians lost jobs — 300,000. And in Delaware County alone — this in 2020 — 19,000. And I’m not being solicitous when I say these are two of the finest congressmen in the United States Congress in terms of getting things done. I really mean it. And, you know, the American Rescue Plan is going to do more than just provide for the PPE. And one of the things that we’ve done early on — they passed the CARES Act early on. And what we did — what they did was they provided for an inspector general — an outfit to look over where the money was going to make sure that it was spent properly. And the first thing the President did: he came along and he fired the inspector general. And we found out that only 40 percent of the people who, in fact, were small businesses got in on the deal. And they got very big businesses getting the lion’s share of that money. So when we wrote this Rescue Plan, they were insistent that we have an inspector general to make sure the money goes exactly where it’s supposed to go. And so we’re in a position where it’s going to bring immediate relief — $1,400 — to 85 percent of the American public. I said, yesterday, we’re going to get 100 million shots in people’s arms within the first 60 days of my administration and 100 million checks out — 100 million people are going to be getting, not a joke, a check for $1,400, which would change their lives. And you know so many of the people who have worked and gotten themselves laid off or there wasn’t work, and you find yourself, you know, it’s hard paying the rent, hard paying the childcare, hard paying for much of anything. So I just think that — I hope that the program that we’re having here — we’re going to have a tax cut to help retired workers. We’re in a situation where we’re going to expand the paytech [sic] — paycheck — Paycheck Protection Program for the folks who were initially shut out. Initially, at the very beginning of the Paycheck Protection Program, you’d go to a big bank, they’d say, “Do you have an account with us? Have you borrowed money from us? Do you have a credit card from us?” They didn’t want to deal with people who were on the short side of things. But you’ve really made it work. And I think you should be aware: More help is on the way, for real. Do you have questions for me at all? Every time I got stop — stopped in Chester, I lost. I went to school in Claymont, just across the line at Archmere Academy. And we played up here, and you better come prepared to play against Chester. playing Chester. So a lot of my buddies are from Chester, for real. The people I grew up with. And it’s — you know, one of the things that we haven’t — and we’re trying like the devil to make sure to correct is: People who are hardest hit by — and the Congresswoman knows this better than I do — the hardest hit are people in the minority communities. The rate at which they get COVID is significantly higher sometimes in the Latino community, black community — four times greater — and the death rate is significantly higher. And in the last place — and that’s why we’re working so hard — they’re working so hard to make sure to get the vaccines in places that are not ordinarily the focus. That’s why we put these vaccines in community health centers. That’s why we have them in drugstores now. That’s why we have mobile units. But I’m not — I’m not just saying this because we’re here. They have been loud and strong voices — “Get this done.” And it’s not like it passed with 100 votes. You know what I mean? It’s — it was close. And I want to thank you both. And everybody in this county and the next county, in Delaware County, should thank you as well. So is there anything else we can be doing? How many employees at your peak? Yeah. I think it’s going to allow you to bring folks back and increase — increase your business. Yeah. No, it’s a big deal. It’s a big deal. Well, you both do a heck of a job. Good afternoon. When I signed the American Rescue Plan last week, I said, “Help is on the way.” This week — and I — I can report — this is just — it’s here, sooner than many ever thought possible. Over the next 10 days, we’ll reach two goals — two giant goals. The first is, 100 million shots in people’s arms will have been completed within the next 10 days, and 100 million checks in people’s pockets in the next 100 [10] days. Shots in arms and money in pockets — that’s important. The American Rescue Plan is already doing what it was designed to do: make a difference in people’s everyday lives. And we’re just getting started. By the time all the money is distributed, 85 percent of American households will have gotten a $1,400 rescue checks. To give more — to give one more example: For the average family of two parents and two children making a combined income of $110,000 a year, that’s going to add $5,600 for them — $5,600 they’ll get. And the plan does a lot more. It extends unemployment insurance for the 11 million Americans unemployed and any who will be unemployed in the near term. It will help hundreds of thousands of small businesses keep their doors open, which makes a gigantic difference in neighborhoods and communities. If you have a drugstore, if you have a — a beauty shop, a hardware store, it’s the center of small communities. And it gets our schools and — resources they need to open safely. It provides the biggest investment in childcare since World War Two. And it provides food and nutrition help for the millions of families to keep them from going hungry, keeping a roof over their heads. And it expands healthcare coverage and lowers healthcare costs for so many people. And it will cut child poverty in half in this country. That’s the estimate: Child poverty will be cut in half as a consequence of what’s in this recovery act. And it will generate economic growth for the entire nation. That’s why major economists — left, right, and center — support this plan. Even Wall Street has agreed. According to Moody’s, by the end of this year, this law will spur our economy to create 7 million new jobs. And it does one more thing: It focuses on rebuilding the backbone of this country — working families, the middle class, the people who built this country. But as I said last week, it’s one thing to pass a historic piece of legislation like the American Rescue Plan, and it’s quite another to implement it. And the devil is in the details. It requires fastidious oversight to make sure the relief arrives quickly, equitably, and efficiently with no waste or fraud in your bank account, in your mailbox, to the local business in your community and to your child’s school. Look, I’ve been here before. When President Obama and I came into office in 2009, he put me in charge of implementing the Recovery Act, which helped us recover and rebuild during the Great Recession. I was authorized to put together a team, including an accountability board with inspectors general from different agencies that were affected by the act to make sure we got the roughly $800 billion out — out and into the countryside, by the book and quickly, over 18 months. I talked to literally almost 100 — over 150 mayors, all governors except one, constantly going over the granular detail of the implementation of this legislation — that legislation. And the effort put us on a path from crisis to recovery to resurgence. Accordingly, to the oversight board that these — of inspectors general — they said we got it done with less than two tenths of 1 percent waste or fraud. And that’s not what the previous administration did though. When the Congress, last year, passed the CARES Act, the CARES Act — the Congress created a committee of inspectors general to make sure every penny of that money was spent as it was directed. But one of the first things the previous administration did was fire the head of the inspector general’s committee. So when Congress passed what was intended to be a small business relief program, it instead became a free-for-all for well-connected companies. And mainstream — mainstream businesses, from hardware stores to beauty salons, that needed the help most were left behind. Four hundred thousand are now gone. We will not let that happen this time. I learned from my experience implementing the Recovery Act just how important it is to have someone who can manage all the moving parts with efficiency, speed, and integrity, and accountability. That’s the sort of management we’ve seen in our fight against the virus with Jeff Zients, our COVID Response Coordinator. And today, I’m pleased to announce and introduce another gifted manager to coordinate our implementation of the American Rescue Plan: Gene Sperling. Gene will be on the phone with mayors and governors — red states, blue states. A source of constant communication, a source of guidance and support, and, above all, a source of accountability for all of us to get the job. Gene has been here before. The only person in history to serve as director of economic — of the National Economic Council twice. He led successful efforts to deliver relief to small businesses and unemployed Americans in the Obama-Biden administration and in the Clinton administration. I spoke with Gene earlier today, alongside my economic team; he’s ready to get to work. In fact, he’s already hit the ground running. And together we’re going to make sure that the benefits the American Rescue Plan go out quickly and directly to the American people, where they belong. Let me close with this: Help is here and hope is here in real and tangible ways. We’re just days away from 100 million shots in millions — in the arms of millions of Americans. That’s the way. That’s the way — on the way to get every single American access to the vaccine. One hundred million checks going into the pockets — and/or direct deposits — going into the pockets of Americans, on the way to a million more — millions of more Americans. That’s real progress. But we have a lot more to do. We have to prove to the American people that their government can deliver for them, and do it without waste or fraud; that we can vaccinate the nation; that we can get our kids safely back in school; and we can get our economy back on track by helping hundreds of thousands of small businesses open and stay open; and that we can give people of this nation a fighting chance again with relief checks, lower childcare costs, lower healthcare costs, and so much more. That’s our job. That’s our responsibility. And in the process, we’ll be growing the economy as well. We’re going to have to stay on top of every dollar spent through the American Rescue Plan. And that’s what we’re going to do. We can do this. We will do this. God bless you all. Help us on the way. And may God protect our troops. Thank you very, very much. I’m hearing a lot of reports from serious reporters like you saying that. I discussed it with my team, and they say the thing that has more impact than anything Trump would say to the MAGA folks is what the local doctor, what the local preachers, what the local people in the community say. So I urge — I urge all local docs and — and ministers and priests and every — to talk about why — why it’s important to get it — to get that vaccine, and even after that, until everyone is in fact vaccinated, to wear this mask. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you, Kamala. You know, when I look out over what happened the last 50 days when Jill and I first got a chance to move into this magnificent building behind you, I promised the American people — and I guess this is becoming an overused phrase — that help was on the way. But today, with the American Rescue Plan now signed into law, we’ve delivered on that promise. And I don’t mean I’ve delivered; we’ve delivered. Look out there on all of you. Patty, there would still be people, kids in poverty, were it not for all the work you did all those years. And I want to say to Bernie: Bernie, stepping up and making the case why this was so transformational made a big difference in how a lot of people voted. I look out at all of you, House members as well, who have made the case to the American people why this is so important. I watched my buddy, Jim, down in South Carolina, stand up and talk about how it’s going to affect individual people. I haven’t — my inclination is to mention every single one of you, because I think I’ve called most of you and thanked you already for what you did. I even called Pallone. He wasn’t there, though; he was on the other side of the river. We joke all the time. He’s in — he’s in New Jersey; I’m in Delaware. I keep reminding him Delaware owns the Delaware River up to the high watermark in New Jersey. But all kidding aside, I want to thank you all. I want to thank, particularly, the Speaker, who, from day one — from the very first day I got the nomination — was supportive in ways that are hard for me to describe. And, you know, I served a long time in the United States Senate, longer than anybody for — still there at the time, other than Pat. If I were still in the Senate, I’d be Senate pro tem because I was two years ahead of Pat. But all kidding aside, we’ve still got a lot of great majority leaders. But I never saw anybody handle such a controversial, consequential piece of legislation that was right on the edge than Chuck Schumer. I owe you, Chuck. You did an incredible job. And look — and to the members of the House and Senate, thanks for making this happen. You made it happen. As I said, I served 36 years in the Senate. I know how hard it is to pass major consequential legislation, particularly when we only have such minor, small majorities in both houses, Steny. You’ve done an incredible job. And, Nancy and Chuck, I have to say that I agree with many of the columnists that have commented on this legislation: What you shepherded through the Congress not only meets the moment, it does even more. It’s historical, and they call it transformational. And it really is. The bill was supported overwhelmingly by the American people — Democrats, independents, and Republicans — and had a strong support of governors and mayors across the country in both parties — red states and blues. Over 430 mayors contacted me, many of them Republicans, supporting the bill. And here’s why: Because what you all did with it and the refinements you made, it directly addressed the emergency in this country because it focuses on what people need most. Debbie and I often talked about: You got to tell people in plain, simple, straightforward language what it is you’re doing to help. You have to be able to tell a story, tell the story of what you’re about to do and why it matters because it’s going to make a difference in the lives of millions of people and in very concrete, specific ways. This leg- — this legislation, as everybody has already mentioned, will provide $1,400 in direct payments, which we all promised. Well, that means for a typical family of four — a middle-class family, husband and wife working, making $110,000 a year — that means a $5,600 check they’re going to get. Eighty-five percent of the households in America will be getting this money. Now, a lot of you know — because of the way you came up like I did and others — what that can mean. Think of the millions of people going to sleep at night, staring at the ceiling, thinking, “My god, what am I going to do tomorrow? I’ve lost my healthcare. I don’t have a job. Unemployment runs out. I’m behind on my mortgage. What are we going to do?” Well, guess what? They’re going to be getting that check soon, either by direct deposit or a check from the Treasury. And they’re going to — some are going to get it as early as this weekend. This legislation provides resources needed to open our schools. How many of you have dealt not only in your own home and with your children and grandchildren, if you have them, with how difficult it is, the mental pressure and stress that are on so many families? So many people needing — need — needing help — if they had access to counseling — because it’s caused an enormous, enormous stress. This legislation extends unemployment insurance by $300 a week until September. It’s going to help 11 million Americans who were days from losing that benefit. This legislation includes the biggest investment in childcare since World War Two. That’s not hyperbole; that’s just a fact. It’s a fact. It provides help for small businesses to stay open. And, you know, four hundred thou- — so many have had to close because, the first time around, you all worked and did a great piece of work, and the House passed a significant legislation. What’s the first thing the last President — he fired — he fired the folks who were supposed to watch and make sure it got, in fact, distributed the way it was supposed to. We find out so much of it went to people who didn’t need it. You all took care of that. It extends coverage and lowers healthcare costs for so many Americans. So many Americans. And it’s a big number for people. It provides for food and nutrition. Because people knew — and you all were out there handing out food like many of us were, but you saw people who were in car lines that were literally miles long. You’d see four lanes of cars that went back for a half a mile each, just to get a box of food. Again, through no fault of their own. It’s going to help people keep a roof over their heads. A half million are — haven’t been able to make their — their mortgage payments, about to be thrown out of their apartments. They have to make up all that they owe. And those mom-and-pop realtors are in real trouble. It’s going to cut job poverty in half with — with — and, you know, I’ve talked to so many of you. Rosa, you and I’ve spent so much time on this. But you guys — you, Patty, and others — are the ones that have been leading this for so long, and it’s finally coming to fruition. And the American people understand it. It pays for many of the steps we’ve taken on — to vaccinate Americans. We’re going to be in a position where, because of what you all did in the past, we had the money to go out and literally purchase hundreds of millions of vaccines, and then go out and make sure we had enough vaccinators. Vaccine is one thing. To get the vaccine in a vial, out of that vial and into a needle, and a needle into someone’s arm — it took tens of thousands of people. And because of you, we were able to mobilize the military. We were able to mobilize FEMA. We were able — I was able, by executive order, to allow former docs and nurses to come back and be able to engage in this activity. And one of the things that we said in the beginning that no one thought that I was being straight about was I said: This is going to create — we — we have to spend this money to make sure we have economic growth, unrelated to how much it’s going to help people. Well, guess what? Every single major economist out there — left, right, and center — supported this plan. Even Wall Street agreed. According to Moody’s, for example, by the end of this year, this law alone will create 7 million new jobs. Seven million. And the bill does one more thing, which I think is really important: It changes the paradigm. For the first time in a long time, this bill puts working people in this nation first. It’s not hyperbole; it’s a fact. For too long, it’s been the folks at the top. They’re not bad folks. A significant number of them know they shouldn’t be getting the tax breaks they had. But it put the richest Americans first, who benefited the most. And the theory was — we’ve all heard it, and especially the last 15 years. The theory was: Cut taxes, and those at the top and the benefits they get will trickle down to everyone. Well, you saw what trickle down does. We’ve known it for a long time. But this is the first time we’ve been able to, since the Johnson administration and maybe even before that, to begin to change the paradigm. We’ve seen time and time again that that trickle down does not work. And, by the way, we don’t have anything against wealthy people. You got a great idea, you’re going to go out and make millions of dollars — that’s fine. I have no problem with that. But guess what? You got to pay your fair share. You got to pay some. Because guess what? Folks who are making — living on the edge, they’re paying. And so, again, all it’s done is make those at the top richer in the past, and everyone else falling behind. This time, it’s time that we build an economy that grows from the bottom up and the middle out — — the middle out. And this bill shows that when you do that, everybody does better. The wealthy do better. Everybody does better across the board. If that’s our foundation, then everything we build upon will be strong — a strong foundation: our competitiveness around the world, the jobs here at home, the health and quality of our lives. That’s what the American Rescue Plan represents, and it’s all about rebuilding what I’ve been saying, and Bernie and a lot of others are saying — the backbone of this country. The backbone of this country are hardworking folks. Hardworking folks. Middle-class folks. People who built the country. And I might add, I think, unions built the middle class. And it’s about creating opportunity and giving people a fair shot. That’s really all and everything it’s about. In the coming weeks, Jill and I, and Kamala and Doug, and our Cabinet, with all of you — members of Congress — we’re going to be traveling the country to speak directly to the American people about how this law is going to make a real difference in their lives and how help is here for them. Almost every single aspect would be significant — would be every — if you took the piece of this bill and broke it into all of the pieces, every one of those pieces standing alone would be viewed as a significant accomplishment. But it’s all the work you’ve done for years to try to get us there. This law is not the end of our efforts, though. I view it as only the beginning. As we — look, one of the things that I’ve been most worried about, and I think you all have too — especially those of us who’ve been around for 100 years, like me — is you’ve watched people lose confidence in government. Just lose confidence in that we tell the truth. That’s why, when I announced, I — I quoted Franklin Roosevelt. He said, “I’ll give it to you straight from the shoulder.” The American people can handle anything if you tell them the truth. And they really can. Just give it straight from the shoulder. And when we do something right, we’re going to make a case for it. And when I make a mistake, I’m going to own up to it and say, “It was me. I made a mistake.” And I said last night: This is not over. Conditions can change. We’re not finished yet. Conditions can change. The scientists have warned us about new variants of this virus. And the devil is in the details of implementing this legislation. I know from experience when the President turned to me — like I haven’t done to the Vice President yet — and said, “Take care of it. You take care of implementing the plan.” But she could do it. But I remember being — given the dubious distinction of having to implement a Recovery Act back in — when we came into office, Barack and I. I spent literally four or five hours a day, for six months. I talked to over 160 mayors probably more than two or three times; every governor, save one, who was looking at from Alaska to Russia — and making sure that we’re in a situation where we talk to everybody. But it takes — the devil is in the details. It’s one thing to pass the American Rescue Plan. It’s going to be another thing to implement it. It’s going to require fastidious oversight to make sure there’s no waste or fraud, and the law does what it’s designed to do. And I mean it: We have to get this right. Details matter, because we have to continue to build confidence in the American people that their government can function for them and deliver. So there’s a lot of work for all of us left to do, but I know we’ll do it. To every American watching: Help is here, and we will not stop working for you. Together, with you, we are showing it’s possible to get big, important things done. That’s what America does. It tackles hard problems. And how we do — you know, look, it’s how we do have it within ourselves to come out of this moment, which we’ve been saying — a lot of us have been saying for a long time, more prosperous, more united, and stronger than we went in. That’s where we have a chance to be. That’s what we’re going to be able to do. And it’s really critical — and it’s really critical to demonstrate not Democrat/Republican; it’s critical to demonstrate that government can function — can function and deliver prosperity, security, and opportunity for the people in this country. And as my grandfather used to kiddingly say, “With the grace of God, the goodwill of the neighbors, and the crick not rising,” that’s exactly what we’re going to do. God bless you all. Thanks for all you did. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. I wish I could come out and shake hands with every one of you. But next time, it won’t be so far apart. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Hello, everyone. I wish we were able to do this in person, but it’s wonderful to gather with friends even — even in this virtual format. We’re reminded that we’re in the midst of a global crisis, but we’re going to overcome that as well. The Quad group is — was created in the wake of, as you just — everyone just saw on that short film — in the wake of a crisis under my predecessor, George W. Bush, on the 204 — the 2004 tsunami. I remember later, Mr. Prime Minister, in Japan, going and visiting that — the aftermath of that. It was devastating what you all went through. And for the first time, we’re convening this group as — at a leader level. And I want to thank my counterparts for joining me today: Prime Minister Morrison and Modi and Suga. You — it’s good to have you all. Like I said, I wish we were doing this together. The — it’s also the first multilateral summit that I’ve had the opportunity to host as President. And on this — and on this moment, it’s a purpose that I think we all are concerned about: a free and open Indo-Pacific is essential to each of our futures, our countries. The United States is committed to working with you, our partners, and all our allies in the region to achieve stability. And this is a group of — particularly important because it’s dedicated to the practical solutions and concrete results. And, my counterparts, if you’ll forgive me, I’d like to give one example of why it matters. There are many examples, but, yesterday, I signed in law the American Rescue Plan to get the American people through this pandemic and kick start our economy and our economic recovery. It’s a bill that will get meaningful help into the hands of people in our country who need it the most. Consequently, this week, the OECD revised up its expected rate of growth for the United States this year as a consequence of that legislation. In fact, it doubled it from 3.2 percent to 6.5 percent; the fastest rate in one-year economic growth since 1984. And it’s critical because the OECD also predicted that the United States economic growth, fueled by the ARP and increased vaccinations, will be a key driver in global growth this year and our trade partners benefiting around the world as a consequence. But to get this right, we all have to focus on generating domestic demand and driving sustainable global growth. And we’ve launching an ambitious new joint partnership that is going to boost vaccine manufacturing, and — for the global benefit — and strengthen vaccinations to benefit the entire Indo-Pacific. We’re establishing a new mechanism to enhance our cooperation and raise our mutual ambitions as we address accelerating climate change. And — and we’re renewing our commitment to ensure that our region is governed by international law, committed to upholding universal values, and free from coercion. We’ve got a big agenda ahead of us, gentlemen, as you well know, but I’m optimistic about our prospects. The Quad is going to be a vital arena for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. And I look forward to working closely with — with all of you in the coming years. And now, Prime Minister Modi, I’m kicking it over to you. And again, it’s great to see you. Thank you. Good evening, my fellow Americans. Tonight, I’d like to talk to you about where we are as we mark one year since everything stopped because of this pandemic. A year ago, we were hit with a virus that was met with silence and spread unchecked. Denials for days, weeks, then months that led to more deaths, more infections, more stress, and more loneliness. Photos and videos from 2019 feel like they were taken in another era. The last vacation. The last birthday with friends. The last holiday with the extended family. While it was different for everyone, we all lost something. A collective suffering. A collective sacrifice. A year filled with the loss of life — and the loss of living for all of us. But, in the loss, we saw how much there was to gain in appreciation, respect, and gratitude. Finding light in the darkness is a very American thing to do. In fact, it may be the most American thing we do. And that’s what we’ve done. We’ve seen frontline and essential workers risking their lives — sometimes losing them — to save and help others. Researchers and scientists racing for a vaccine. And so many of you, as Hemingway wrote, being strong in all the broken places. I know it’s been hard. I truly know. As I’ve told you before, I carry a card in my pocket with the number of Americans who have died from COVID to date. It’s on the back of my schedule. As of now, the total deaths in America: 527,726. That’s more deaths than in World War One, World War Two, the Vietnam War, and 9/11 combined. They were husbands, wives, sons and daughters, grandparents, friends, neighbors — young and old. They leave behind loved ones unable to truly grieve or to heal, even to have a funeral. But I’m also thinking about everyone else who lost this past year to natural causes, by cruel fate of accident, or other diseases. They, too, died alone. They, too, leave loved ones behind who are hurting badly. You know, you’ve often heard me say before, I talk about the longest walk any parent can make is up a short flight of stairs to his child’s bedroom to say, “I’m sorry. I lost my job. We can’t be here anymore.” Like my Dad told me when he lost his job in Scranton. So many of you have had to make that same walk this past year. You lost your job. You closed your business. Facing eviction, homelessness, hunger, a loss of control, and, maybe worst of all, a loss of hope. Watching a generation of children who may be set back up to a year or more — because they’ve not been in school — because of their loss of learning. It’s the details of life that matter most, and we’ve missed those details. The big details and small moments. Weddings, birthdays, graduations — all the things that needed to happen but didn’t. The first date. The family reunions. The Sunday night rituals. It’s all has exacted a terrible cost on the psyche of so many of us. For we are fundamentally a people who want to be with others — to talk, to laugh, to hug, to hold one another. But this virus has kept us apart. Grandparents haven’t seen their children or grandchildren. Parents haven’t seen their kids. Kids haven’t seen their friends. The things we used to do that always filled us with joy have become the things we couldn’t do and broke our hearts. Too often, we’ve turned against one another. A mask — the easiest thing to do to save lives — sometimes it divides us. States pitted against one other instead of working with each other. Vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans, who have been attacked, harassed, blamed, and scapegoated. At this very moment, so many of them — our fellow Americans — they’re on the frontlines of this pandemic, trying to save lives, and still — still — they are forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America. It’s wrong, it’s un-American, and it must stop. Look, we know what we need to do to beat this virus: Tell the truth. Follow the scientists and the science. Work together. Put trust and faith in our government to fulfill its most important function, which is protecting the American people — no function more important. We need to remember the government isn’t some foreign force in a distant capital. No, it’s us. All of us. “We the People.” For you and I, that America thrives when we give our hearts, when we turn our hands to common purpose. And right now, my friends, we are doing just that. And I have to say, as your President, I am grateful to you. Last summer, I was in Philadelphia, and I met a small-business owner — a woman. I asked her — I said, “What do you need most?” I’ll never forget what she said to me. She said — looking me in the eye, she said, “I just want the truth. The truth. Just tell me the truth.” Think of that. My fellow Americans, you’re owed nothing less than the truth. And for all of you asking when things will get back to normal, here is the truth: The only way to get our lives back, to get our economy back on track is to beat the virus. You’ve been hearing me say that for — while I was running and the last 50 days I’ve been President. But this is one of the most complex operations we’ve under- — ever undertaken as a nation in a long time. That’s why I’m using every power I have as President of the United States to put us on a war footing to get the job done. It sounds like hyperbole, but I mean it: a war footing. And thank God we’re making some real progress now. On my first full day in office, I outlined for you a comprehensive strategy to beat this pandemic. And we have spent every day since attempting to carry it out. Two months ago, the country — this country didn’t have nearly enough vaccine supply to vaccinate all or near all of the American public. But soon we will. We’ve been working with the vaccine manufacturers — Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson — to manufacture and purchase hundreds of millions of doses of these three safe, effective vaccines. And now, at the direction and with the assistance of my administration, Johnson & Johnson is working together with a competitor, Merck, to speed up and increase the capacity to manufacture new Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which is one shot. In fact, just yesterday, I announced — and I met with the CEOs of both companies — I announced our plan to buy an additional 100 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccines. These two companies — competitors — have come together for the good of the nation, and they should be applauded for it. It’s truly a national effort, just like we saw during World War II. Now because of all the work we’ve done, we’ll have enough vaccine supply for all adults in America by the end of May. That’s months ahead of schedule. And we’re mobilizing thousands of vaccinators to put the vaccine in one’s arm. Calling on active duty military, FEMA, retired doctors and nurses, administrators, and those to administer the shots. And we’ve been creating more places to get the shots. We’ve made it possible for you to get a vaccine at nearly one — any one of nearly 10,000 pharmacies across the country, just like you get your flu shot. We’re also working with governors and mayors, in red states and blue states, to set up and support nearly 600 federally supported vaccination centers that administer hundreds of thousands of shots per day. You can drive up to a stadium or a large parking lot, get your shot, never leave your car, and drive home in less than an hour. We’ve been sending vaccines to hundreds of community health centers all across America, located in underserved areas. And we’ve been deploying and we will deploy more mobile vehicles and pop-up clinics to meet you where you live so those who are least able to get the vaccine are able to get it. We continue to work on making at-home testing available. And we’ve been focused on serving people in the hardest-hit communities of this pandemic — Black, Latino, Native American, and rural communities. So, what does all this add up to? When I took office 50 days ago, only 8 percent of Americans after months — only 8 percent of those over the age of 65 had gotten their first vaccination. Today, that number is [nearly] 65 percent. Just 14 percent of Americans over the age 75, 50 days ago, had gotten their first shot. Today, that number is well over 70 percent. With new guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — the CDC — that came out on Monday, it means simply this: Millions and millions of grandparents who went months without being able to hug their grandkids can now do so. And the more people who are fully vaccinated, the CD [CDC] will continue to provide guidance on what you can do in the workplace, places of worship, with friends, and as well as travel. When I came into office, you may recall, I set a goal that many of you said was, kind of, way over the top. I said I intended to get 100 million shots in people’s arms in my first 100 days in office. Tonight, I can say we are not only going to meet that goal, we’re going to beat that goal. Because we’re actually on track to reach this goal of 100 million shots in arms on my 60th day in office. No other country in the world has done this. None. Now I want to talk about the next steps we’re thinking about. First, tonight, I’m announcing that I will direct all states, tribes, and territories to make all adults — people 18 and over — eligible to be vaccinated no later than May 1. Let me say that again: All adult Americans will be eligible to get a vaccine no later than May 1. That’s much earlier than expected. Let me be clear: That doesn’t mean everyone’s going to have that shot immediately, but it means you’ll be able to get in line beginning May 1. Every adult will be eligible to get their shot. To do this, we’re going to go from a million shots a day that I promised in December, before I was sworn in, to maintaining — beating our current pace of two million shots a day, outpacing the rest of the world. Secondly, at the time when every adult is eligible in May, we will launch, with our partners, new tools to make it easier for you to find the vaccine and where to get the shot, including a new website that will help you first find the place to get vaccinated and the one nearest you. No more searching day and night for an appointment for you and your loved ones. Thirdly, with the passage of the American Rescue Plan — and I thank again the House and Senate for passing it — and my announcement last month of a plan to vaccinate teachers and school staff, including bus drivers, we can accelerate the massive, nationwide effort to reopen our schools safely and meet my goal, that I stated at the same time about 100 million shots, of opening the majority of K-8 schools in my first 100 days in office. This is going to be the number one priority of my new Secretary of Education, Miguel Cardona. Fourth, in the coming weeks, we will issue further guidance on what you can and cannot do once fully vaccinated, to lessen the confusion, to keep people safe, and encourage more people to get vaccinated. And finally, fifth, and maybe most importantly: I promise I will do everything in my power, I will not relent until we beat this virus, but I need you, the American people. I need you. I need every American to do their part. And that’s not hyperbole. I need you. I need you to get vaccinated when it’s your turn and when you can find an opportunity, and to help your family and friends and neighbors get vaccinated as well. Because here’s the point: If we do all this, if we do our part, if we do this together, by July the 4th, there’s a good chance you, your families, and friends will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout and a barbeque and celebrate Independence Day. That doesn’t mean large events with lots of people together, but it does mean small groups will be able to get together. After this long hard year, that will make this Independence Day something truly special, where we not only mark our independence as a nation, but we begin to mark our independence from this virus. But to get there, we can’t let our guard down. This fight is far from order — from over. As I told the woman in Pennsylvania, “I will tell you the truth.” A July 4th with your loved ones is the goal. But a goal — a lot can happen; conditions can change. The scientists have made clear that things may get worse again as new variants of the virus spread. And we’ve got work to do to ensure everyone has confidence in the safety and effectiveness of all three vaccines. So my message to you is this: Listen to Dr. Fauci, one of the most distinguished and trusted voices in the world. He has assured us the vaccines are safe. They underwent rigorous scientific review. I know they’re safe. Vice President Harris and I know they’re safe. That’s why we got the vaccine publicly in front of cameras so — for the world to see, so you could see us do it. The First Lady and the Second Gentleman also got vaccinated. Talk to your family, your friends, your neighbors — the people you know best who’ve gotten the vaccine. We need everyone to get vaccinated. We need everyone to keep washing their hands, stay socially distanced, and keep wearing the masks as recommended by the CDC. Because even if we devote every resource we have, beating this virus and getting back to normal depends on national unity. And national unity isn’t just how politics and politicians vote in Washington or what the loudest voices say on cable or online. Unity is what we do together as fellow Americans. Because if we don’t stay vigilant and the conditions change, then we may have to reinstate restrictions to get back on track. And, please, we don’t want to do again. We’ve made so much progress. This is not the time to let up. Just as we are emerging from a dark winter into a hopeful spring and summer is not the time to not stick with the rules. I’ll close with this. We’ve lost so much over the last year. We’ve lost family and friends. We’ve lost businesses and dreams we spent years building. We’ve lost time — time with each other. And our children have lost so much time with their friends, time with their schools. No graduation ceremonies this — this spring. No graduations from college, high school, moving-up ceremonies. You know, and there’s something else we lost. We lost faith in whether our government and our democracy can deliver on really hard things for the American people. But as I stand here tonight, we’re proving once again something I have said time and time again until they’re probably tired of hearing me say it. I say it foreign leaders and domestic alike: It’s never, ever a good bet to bet against the American people. America is coming back. The development, manufacture, and distribution of the vaccines in record time is a true miracle of science. It is one of the most extraordinary achievements any country has ever accomplished. And we also just saw the Perseverance rover land on Mars. Stunning images of our dreams that are now a reality. Another example of the extraordinary American ingenuity, commitment, and belief in science and one another. And today, I signed into law the American Rescue Plan, an historic piece of legislation that delivers immediate relief to millions of people. It includes $1,400 in direct rescue checks — payments. That means a typical family of four earning about $110,000 will get checks for $5,600 deposited if they have direct deposit or in a check — a Treasury check. It extends unemployment benefits. It helps small businesses. It lowers healthcare premiums for many. It provides food and nutrition, keeps families in their homes. And it will cut child poverty in this country in half, according to the experts. And it fi- — and it funds all the steps I’ve just described to beat the virus and create millions of jobs. In the coming weeks and months, I’ll be traveling, along with the First Lady, the Vice President, the Second Gentleman and members of my Cabinet, to speak directly to you, to tell you the truth about how the American Rescue Plan meets the moment. And if it fails at any pa-, I will acknowledge that it failed. But it will not. About how after a long, dark years — one whole year, there is hope and light of better days ahead. If we all do our part, this country will be vaccinated soon, our economy will be on the mend, our kids will be back in school, and we will have proven once again that this country can do anything — hard things, big things, important things. Over a year ago, no one could’ve imagined what we were about to go through, but now we’re coming through it, and it’s a shared experience that binds us together as a nation. We are bound together by the loss and the pain of the days that have gone by. But we’re also bound together by the hope and the possibilities of the days in front of us. My fervent prayer for our country is that, after all we have been through, we’ll come together as one people, one nation, one America. I believe we can and we will. We’re seizing this moment. And history, I believe, will record: We faced and overcame one of the toughest and darkest periods in this nation’s history — darkest we’ve ever known. I promise you, we’ll come out stronger with a renewed faith in ourselves, a renewed commitment to one another, to our communities, and to our country. This is the United States of America, and there is nothing — nothing — from the bottom of my heart, I believe this — there is nothing we can’t do when we do it together. So God bless you all. And please, God, give solace to all those people who lost someone. And may God protect our troops. Thank you for taking the time to listen. I look forward to seeing you. I want to thank you both for those words. You know, you and I knew one another when I wasn’t a President and you weren’t a chairman. We’d ride back and forth on Amtrak. You lived in Philadelphia; I was commuting to Wilmington. It’s good to see you both here. And thank both of you for your kind words. And I want to thank the scientists and researchers at Johnson & Johnson for the literal heroic effort that began when COVID-19 first spread and led to the safe and effective vaccine that are now being co-produced. Today, we’re seeing two health companies — competitors — each with over 130 years of experience, coming together to help write a more hopeful chapter in our battle against COVID-19. I just had an opportunity to meet with both of these CEOs and with their senior operating officers, and to hear about the work they’re doing together to produce vaccine substitute [substance] and accelerate what they call to — to take it to full finish [fill finish]. You know, what’s clear is this is a historic, nearly unprecedented collaboration. During World War Two, one of the country’s slogans was “We are all in this together.” “We are all in this together.” And companies took that slogan to heart. For example, when one automaker didn’t have the capacity to build enough jeeps, so a competitor stepped in to help. Competing airline makers teamed up, and they produced parts for each other and gave the American pilots, as a consequence of that, control of the skies. Today, we’re seeing the same type of collaboration when it comes to getting this virus under control. I said we ought to treat this like a war. So, I want to thank the two companies for showing how we can come together to defeat this virus by putting patriotism and public health first. And I mean that literally — putting patriotism and public health first. Your companies have been working closely with a man you’ve both privately, on the way over, bragged about: Jeff Zients. Jeff is in the front row here. I want to thank you, Jeff, and the entire COVID team you put together for the coordination of our COVID-19 response, and Dr. David Kessler and his team at the Department of Health and Human Services. You know, when we came into office, we began working with the team at J&J to accelerate and add capacity to their manufacturing and production efforts. And it quickly became clear that Merck — one of the world’s leading vaccine manufacturers — was in a position to be the partner we needed in this effort — in this wartime effort. I have not hesitated to use my power under the Defense Production Act to expedite critical materials in vaccine production, such as equipment, machinery, and supplies. And it’s not just Johnson & Johnson and Merck; Pfizer and Moderna also worked closely with us to help speed up the delivery of millions of more doses. The result is that we’re now on track to have enough vaccine supply for every American adult by the end of May — months earlier than anyone expected. And today, I am directing Jeff and my HHS team to produce an additional 100 million doses and purchase another 100 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. I’m doing this because, in this wartime efforts, we need maximum flexibility. There is always a chance that we’ll encounter unexpected challenges or we’ll — there will be a new need for a vaccine effort — or vaccination effort. A lot can happen, a lot can change, and we need to be prepared. And, of course, we need to match the miracle of science and the skill of manufacturing with the massive logistical undertaking of vaccinating over 300 million Americans. Already, we have gone from Johnson & Johnson vaccine authorization to shots in the arm in three days. I was telling the gentlemen, we were at a facility yesterday — a veterans outreach — and there were four — or there were three members of the veterans community getting shots. One was getting — of each of the three vaccines. And the guy in the middle, a veteran, was getting his. And I was standing about as far away as I am from you, and standing up, and he was sitting down. And as the nurse put it in his arm, he went, “J&J — just one.” Well, there’s millions of people who are going to feel that way and be proud to have — be in a position that they ha- — an ability to get the kind of help they need. Seven weeks ago, only 8 percent of the seniors — those most vulnerable to COVID-19 — had received the vaccination. Today, 60 percent of the people over the age of 65 or older have received at least one shot. And that’s because this is the population that represents 80 percent of the COVID-19 deaths. We’ve opened — we’ve opened support and opened — excuse me — and supported more than 500 community vaccination sites. That’s more — and they’re administrating hundreds of thousands of shots a day. And for folks who aren’t near a pharmacy or mass vaccination center, we’re deploying mobile clinics, like vans, that go into places to meet the folks where they live. We’re also supplying vaccines to community health centers to reach those who have been hit the hardest and suffered the most, especially black, Latino, Native American, and rural communities. And this is important because we know we have more to do to ensure everyone is treated with equity and those most impacted get the care they deserve. On Saturday, we hit a record of 2.9 million vaccinations in one day in America. And beyond the numbers are the stories: a father who says he no longer fears for his daughter when she leaves to go to work at the hospital; the children who are now able to hug their grandparents. The vaccines bring hope and healing in so many ways. Again, a vaccinated American is the only way to beat the pandemic, get our economy back on track, and for us to get back our lives and our loved ones. You know, that’s why the American Rescue Plan was so critical. I want to thank Speaker Pelosi and the House of Representatives today for passing the bill, and I will be signing it into law shortly. This bill represents a historic — historic victory for the American people. I look forward to signing it later this week. Everything in the American Rescue Plan addresses a real need, including investments to fund our entire vaccination effort: more vaccines, more vaccinators, and more vaccinations sites. Millions more Americans will get tested, including home testing. Schools will soon have the funding and resources to reopen safely — a national imperative. The American Rescue Plan, the partnership between Johnson & Johnson and Merck, proves we can do big things, important things in this country. Now, I’ll — let me conclude with this: Tomorrow night, I’m going on primetime to address the American people and talk about what we went through as a nation this past year. But more importantly, I’m going to talk about what comes next. I’m going to launch the next phase of the COVID response and explain what we will do as a government and what we will ask of the American people. There is light at the end of this dark tunnel of the past year, but we cannot let our guard down now or assume that victory is inevitable. Together, we’re going to get through this pandemic and usher in a healthier and more hopeful future. So there is real reason for hope, folks. There’s real reason for hope, I promise you. May God bless you all. May God protect our troops. And may God ease the pain in the heart of so many who have lost so many people in this pandemic. Thank you, and I really — we’re going to do this. We’re going to get it done. Thank you. Hey, everybody. How are you? It’s good to see you. Fire away, Mary. Now, you’ve been engaged in the neighborhood too. You sponsor a Little League team, don’t you? Have you hired any of those folks? Three? I’ll be darned. Tell me, what kind of — what — what hit you the hardest when the pandemic hit? Well, one of the reasons why I changed the rule for — it was 20 days — to make sure only employers that had 20 or fewer employees could qualify for PPP. And the reason for that was: 400,000 small businesses went out of business. They got in line, but they couldn’t get the help. And we found out that an awful lot of that went to big — bigger businesses that, in fact, weren’t supposed to qualify for this. Because they — there used be a thing called an “inspector general” to see where the money went. And the last administration fired the inspector general, so a lot of money went to people who shouldn’t have gotten help, and it didn’t go to folks who — But, you know, the significance with this new program — and we’re going to continue this, by the way — it’s not only — only businesses with fewer than 20 folks could apply for the last couple weeks. But now we’re going to keep the focus on it because there’s a lot of minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses are increased significantly by 20, 15 — 20 and 15 percent, as well as getting people who, in fact, weren’t able to get in line before. And it’s hard to know how to get in line. And so I hope this is going to continue to increase because we’re also at the point where I think we’re going to begin to gain control of this virus. I see them. Don’t jump; we need you. Thank you, Madam Vice President, and thank you, Mr. Secretary. On Friday, I submitted to the Senate for confirmation my first slate of nominations for four-star command positions in our Armed Forces — among them, two outstanding and eminently qualified warriors and patriots. General Jacqueline Van Ovost in the United States Air Force is currently the only female four-star officer serving in our military. I nominated her as Commander of the United States Transportation Command. And when confirmed, the Lieutenant General Laura Richardson, of the United States Army, will be promoted in rank and join General Van Ovost as the only four-star — as another four-star general. I nominated her as Commander in the United States Southern Command. And, when confirmed, they will become the second and third women in the history of the United States Armed Forces to lead combatant commands. Each of these women have led careers demonstrating incomparable skill, integrity, and duty to country. And at every step, they’ve also helped push open the doors of opportunity to women in our military — blazing the trail a little wider, a little brighter for all the proud women following in their path and looking to their example. And I wanted to shine the light on these accomplishments for those women today because General Van Ovost — as reiterated in an interview this last week, and I’m the second person to say this — it’s hard to be what you can’t see. It’s hard to be what you can’t see, but you’ll soon see. Today is International Women’s Day. And we all need to see and to recognize the barrier-breaking accomplishments of these women. We need the young women just beginning their careers in the military service to see it and know that no door will be closed to them. We need women and men throughout the ranks to see and celebrate women’s accomplishments and leadership in the services. We need little girls and boys both, who have grown up dreaming of serving for their country, to know this is what generals in the United States Armed Forces look like. This is what Vice Presidents of United States look like. So I’d like to spend just a few minutes today making sure that America knows who General Van Ovost is and Lieutenant General Richardson is. They’re aviators. Both learned to fly planes before they were old enough to drive a car. General Van Ovost, a first-generation — is a first-generation American: the daughter of Dutch immigrants who owned a flying operation. She loved the freedom of flight and, as a teenager, flew herself to see Sally Ride lift off as the first woman in space. Sixteen years old, goes down to see Sally Ride. She said she was at several thousand feet watching from a distance. You know, women weren’t — were banned from flying combat missions when the General joined the force, so she focused on becoming a test pilot. And instead of learning to fly just one plane, she learned to fly everything, including Air Force Two when I was Vice President. General Van Ovost currently is — oversees Air Mobility Command: approximately 107,000 airmen and 1,100 planes that enable America’s air power and humanitarian assistance to go everywhere in the world it need be. From flying water to Texans after the recent storms, to ensuring our wounded warriors are evacuated for medical care from anywhere in the world, she gets it done. Lieutenant General Richardson’s parents were proud patriots. It must have rubbed off because Lieutenant General Richardson and her brother and sister all joined the Army. Her father encouraged her to join ROTC in college, even though that meant commuting to a different school. When Lieutenant General Richardson joined the Army Aviation Branch, women were banned from flying attack helicopters. She flew to — in support of combatant — combat missions, and conducting lift operations of her UH-1 — the so-called “Huey” — and the Blackhawks. Now, as a commanding general of the United States Army North, Lieutenant General Richardson oversees military ground responses here in North America all over — all over the last year. That’s meant getting military and medical personnel deployed to help in our response to this pandemic. More than 4,500 military and medical personnel deployed in hospitals across 14 states and the Navajo Nation to treat COVID-19 patients. It means more than 2,200 medical personnel are working, or soon will be, at vaccination sites in eight states and the United States Virgin Islands. I’m so proud of the incredible work Lieutenant General Richardson and her team have done to support the American people this year, and the American people are as well. They’re warriors. They’re crisis-tested commanders. But best of all — but best of all, they’re not done yet. Neither of these incredible generals is resting on her laurels or on her stars. They’re using their voices and actively working to change policies in the military to make it easier and safer for more women not just to join the military, but to stay in the military and to thrive. I’m incredibly proud that in 2015, under the Obama-Biden administration, we took the final steps to open up all positions in the military to anyone qualified to serve in them. The women who join today’s military aren’t told “no” when they apply to fly fighter jets or attack helicopters just because of their gender. They aren’t told “no” when they want to apply to Ranger School or infantry officer basic training. But they all know that there’s much, much more work to be done to ensure that women’s leadership is recognized and we have more diverse leaders; we reach the top echelons of command for all who are qualified, including all women — all women; and that all women feel safe and respected in our military — period. You know, some of — some of it is relatively straightforward work where we’re making good progress designing body armor that fits women properly; tailoring combat uniforms for women; creating maternity flight suits; updating — updating requirements for their hairstyles. And some of it is going to take — and — you know, an intensity of purpose and mission to really change the culture and habits that cause women to leave the military: That women are — making sure more diverse candidates are considering — being considered for career-advancing opportunities at every single level. That women aren’t penalized in their careers for having children. That women aren’t just token members, but integral parts throughout all branches and all divisions. And that they can completely, fairly engage in promotion and compete all across the board, including on the — on age and gender neutrality and the physical fitness test. You know that both members of the — of the military couples can thrive while serving, like Lieutenant General Richardson and her husband, Lieutenant General Richardson, who, I might add, I want to thank you for getting me off a mountain that was about 12- to 14,000 feet up on a goat path when our helicopter went down in a snowstorm. It’s good to see you, General. The ride down that mountain was more perilous in a truck than it was in the helicopter, but thank you. And we have to take on sexual assault and harassment and violence against women in the military. Sexual assault is a abhorrent and wrong at any time. And in our military, where so much of unit cohesion is built on trusting your fellow service members to have your back, there’s nothing less than a threat to our national security. I know Secretary Austin takes this as seriously as Vice President Harris and I do. That’s why his first memo as Secretary was a directive to take on sexual assault in the military and why he stepped up independent review — he set up an Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault to make concrete recommendations for changes. This is going to be an all-hands-on-deck effort under my administration to end the scourge of sexual assault in the military. And we’re going to be focused on that from the very top. I know that we can do it. The U.S. Military has defeated American enemies on land, in air, and at sea, and this is not beyond us. I want to thank General Van Ovost — Ovost and Lieutenant General Richardson for their exemplary careers and service to our country. You’re America’s patriotism at its finest: undaunted and absolutely — absolutely able to do anything by any obstacle; determined to open wide and the doors of opportunity; and ready for the next challenge. It’s my great honor to serve as your Commander-in-Chief. And I look forward to hearing your active-duty and recommendations of how we will work together to keep the American people safe to meet every challenge in the 21st century. So I want to thank you both. And I want to thank Sec- — the former general — I keep calling him “General.” My — the guy who runs that outfit over there. I want to make sure we thank the Secretary for all he’s done to try to implement what we’ve just talked about, and for recommending these two women for promotion. Thank you all. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. I can talk to you about that later. Good morning to everyone joining in this unity breakfast named after Dr. and Mrs. King and to commemorate the anniversary of the march in Selma. I know this is the first commemoration of Bloody Sunday without Reverend C.T. Vivian, Reverend Joseph Lowery, and Congressman John Lewis. Preachers of the social gospel. Architects of the ‘Beloved Community,’ they built not only with words but with action. And reminders that in our lifetime, for Black Americans, the fundamental right to vote has been denied by white supremacy hiding both behind white hoods and in plain sight in state houses and courtrooms. Yet those torches and burning crosses, the batons, tear gas, fire hoses, attack dogs, and unfair laws and trials could not stop progress. The blood of John Lewis and hundreds of other brave and righteous souls that was spilled in Selma, on this Sunday in 1965 sanctified a noble struggle. And when the country saw those images that night, America was forced to confront the denial of democracy — the fierce urgency of justice. Congress passed the Voting Rights Act a few months later, and President Johnson signed it into law. The legacy of the march in Selma is that while nothing can stop a free people from exercising their most sacred power as a citizen, there are those who will do everything they can to take that power away. The Voting Rights Act began to dismantle barriers to voting and to make our elections more fair, free, and representative. I was always proud to lead the efforts to reauthorize it over the years as a U.S. Senator in the Judiciary Committee. But at the same time, Republicans at every level have chipped away at it. Then in 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court gutted the Voting Rights Act, holding that times have changed and blatant voter discrimination was rare, contrary to the assault that was taking place on the ground. The late Justice Ginsburg wrote that the decision was like “throwing away your umbrella in a rainstorm.” Today, we have a hail storm, not a rain storm. And in 2020, our very democracy on the line, even in the midst of a pandemic, more Americans voted than ever before. Multiple recounts in states and decisions in more than 60 courts – from judges appointed by my predecessor, including at the Supreme Court – upheld the integrity of this historic election. Yet instead of celebrating this powerful demonstration of voting – we have seen an unprecedented insurrection in our Capitol and a brutal attack on our democracy on January 6th. A never before seen effort to ignore, undermine, and undo the will of the people. And to think that it’s been followed by an all-out assault on the right to vote in state legislatures all across the country happening right now. During the current legislative session, elected officials in 43 states have already introduced more than 250 bills to make it harder for Americans to vote. We cannot let them succeed. Last week, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the For the People Act of 2021. This is a landmark piece of legislation that is urgently needed to protect the right to vote, the integrity of our elections, and to repair and strengthen our democracy. I hope the Senate does its work so that I can sign it into law. I also urge Congress to fully restore the Voting Rights Act, named in John Lewis’ honor. Today, on the anniversary of Bloody Sunday, I am signing an executive order to make it easier for eligible voters to register to vote and improve access to voting. Every eligible voter should be able to vote and have that vote counted. If you have the best ideas, you have nothing to hide. Let the people vote. I’ll close with this – a few days before he passed, Jill and I spoke with John, Congressman Lewis. But instead of answering our concerns about him, “how are you doing, John,” he asked us to stay focused on the work left undone to heal and to unite this nation around what it means to be an American. That’s the God’s truth. John wouldn’t talk about his pending death or his concerns. He said we just got to get this done. That we are all created equal. That we all deserve to be treated equally. On this day of reflection, please, let’s stay focused on the work ahead. Let’s remember all those who came before us as a bridge to our history so we do not forget its pain, and as a bridge to our future so we never lose our hope. May God bless their memory. May God bless you all. ### Good afternoon. It’s a good day today. You know, when we took office 45 days ago, I promised the American people that help was on the way. Today, I can say we’ve taken one more giant step forward in delivering on that promise that help is on the way. I want to thank — start off by thanking the Vice President, but I want to thank all of the senators who worked so hard to reach a compromise to do the right thing for the American people during this crisis and voted to pass the American Rescue Plan. It obviously wasn’t easy, it wasn’t always pretty, but it was so desperately needed — urgently needed. Also, I also need to say a few words about the Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, who I spoke with many times on this and again this morning. I served in the Senate, as you all know, for many years. I’ve never seen anyone work as skillfully, as ably, as patiently, with determination, to deliver such a consequential piece of legislation that was so urgently needed as the American Rescue Plan. Chuck Schumer — Senator Chuck Schumer, when the country needed you most, you led, Chuck, and you delivered. Neither I nor the country will ever forget that. And it’s not a moment too soon. I’ve been talking about the urgency of this need. For — for over a year, the American people were told they were on their own. They were seeing — we’ve seen how hard that has been on so many Americans. As of last night, 519,064 lives lost to the virus. That many empty chairs this morning — the breakfast table — gone. More than four hundred [thousand] small businesses closed unnecessarily. Millions of people out of work through no fault of their own. I want to emphasize that: through no fault of their own. Food bank lines stretching for miles. Did any of you ever you’d see that in America, in cities all across this country? Families facing the threat of eviction. This nation has suffered too much for much too long. And everything in this package is designed to relieve the suffering and to meet the most urgent needs of the nation and put us in a better position to prevail, starting with beating this virus and vaccinating the country. The resources in this plan will be used to expand and speed up manufacturing and distribution of vaccines so we can get every single American vaccinated sooner than later. I believe by — we’ll have enough by the end of — by the middle of May to vaccinate. It’s going to take longer to take longer to get it in their arm, but that’s how much vaccine we’ll have. Because of all the funding, we’ll be able to hire more vaccinators, set up more vaccination sites to get the country in a place to get back to normal. This plan will get checks out the door, starting this month, to the American people who so desperately need the help, many of whom are lying in bed at night, staring at the ceiling, wondering, “Will I lose my job, if I haven’t already? Will I lose my insurance? Will I lose my home?” Over 85 percent of American households will get direct payments of $1,400 per person. For a typical middle-class family of four — husband and wife working, making $100,000 a year total, with three kids — they’ll get $5,600 — I mean, with two kids — will get $5,600, and it’ll be on the way soon. That means the mortgage can get paid. That means the child can stay in community college. That means maintaining the health insurance you have. It’s going to make a big difference in so many of lives in this country. Unemployment benefits will be extended for 11 million Americans who have lost their jobs and who, last night, again were lying in bed, just thinking, “My lord, I’m going to lose my unemployment insurance in a week or so.” It was about to expire. Schools are going to have the resources they need to open safely. States and local governments that have lost tens of thousands of essential workers will be — have the resources they need available to them, to those laid-off police officers, firefighters, teachers, and nurses they can rehire. These are essential personnel. Look, the American Rescue Plan lowers healthcare premiums. Food and nutrition assistance. It’s hard to believe that 24 million adults and 11 million children, as I speak, in the United States suffer from food insecurity. That means, simply, they don’t have enough food to eat. Did you ever imagine in the United States of America, you’d see lines, literally miles long — kids — folks in their automobiles, waiting for a box of food to be put in their trunk. I stood in line, handing out food. The people coming up never, ever, ever thought they’d be in that position. This helps families who are behind on their rent and their mortgage payments so they aren’t thrown out of their homes. Look, the bottom line is this: This plan puts us on the path to beating the virus. This plan gives those families who are struggling the most the help and the breathing room they need to get through this moment. This plan gives small businesses in this country a fighting chance to survive. And one more thing: This plan is historic. Taken altogether, this plan is going to make it possible to cut child poverty in half. Let me say that again — it’s significant, historic: It will cut child poverty in half. There’s much more to this bill, but, for now, let me make one final point. When I was elected, I said we were going to get the government out of the business of battling on Twitter and back in the business of delivering for the American people, of making a difference in their lives, giving everyone a chance — a fighting chance, of showing the American people that their government can work for them. And passing the American Rescue Plan will do that. And, you know, it may sound strange, but a lot of senators and congressmen I want to thank, but I really want to thank the American people for making all of this possible. You say, “Well, how do they make it possible?” Well, quite frankly, without the overwhelming bipartisan support of the American people, this would not have happened. Your elected officials heard you. Overwhelming public support — every public opinion poll shows overwhelming support for this plan. And for the last weeks, it’s shown that. Every public opinion poll shows the people want this, they believe it’s needed, and they believe it’s urgent. And now this bill returns to the House of Representatives, which has done a great job from the beginning, where I hope it will find quick passage so it can be sent to my desk to be signed into law. By passing the American Rescue Plan, we’ll have heeded the voice of the American people, not ignored their voices. By passing this plan, we will have delivered real, tangible results for the American people and their families, and they’ll be able to see and know and feel the change in their own lives. And by passing this plan, we’ll have proved that this government, this democracy can still work. What has to be done — it’ll improve people’s lives. And one more thing: The vast majority of economists — left, right, and center — from Wall Street to the — to the private — private economic polling initiatives — the economists — as I’ve said, left, right, and center — say, “In addition to the needs the people have, we need this to grow the economy.” That if we haven’t spent this money and recreated the kind of incentive for people to be able to make a good living, that we’d be in real trouble. This will create millions of new jobs — it’s estimated over 6 million new jobs by itself; increase the Gross Domestic Product by a trillion dollars; put our nation in a position to out-compete the rest of the world — because the rest of the world is moving, particularly China; and to know that as tough as this moment is, there are brighter days ahead. There really are. As I’ve said before, it’s never a good bet to bet against America. It’s never been a good bet to bet against the American people. We are America. We’re going to get there. We’re going to remain the leading economy in the world and going to be the most successful economy in the world because of you, the American people. Thank you, and God bless you all. May God protect our troops. Thank you. They’re going to be good. I’m going to succeed. We’re going to succeed moving forward. Look, the American people strongly support what we’re doing. That’s the key here. And that’s going to continue to seep down through the public, including from our Republican friends. There’s a lot of Republicans who came very close. They’ve got a lot of pressure on them. I still haven’t given up on getting their support. Thank you. Pardon? They’re not frustrated. Bernie Sanders said this is the most progressive bill he’s ever seen passed since he’s been here. And the compromises were all compromises that didn’t affect the substance and the essence of what the bill is. Going from $300 — from $400 to $300, to the unemployment excess. Well, it got extended until September. The end result is the essentially about the same. And so, I don’t think any of the compromises have in any way fundamentally altered the essence of what I put in the bill in the first place. Thank you. Thanks for being here, everybody. This is important, and I appreciate you being willing to come and tell your stories. I wanted this to be a conversation about what the impact of the $1,400 that our plan has for every American out there, and to make sure that I understand what you think is important about it, if you think it’s important. And I also want to — you know, the people you’re about to meet, the millions of people who are going to help with this — I think — with this check, that’s going to make a big difference in terms of their lives. And people in the country are hurting right now, with less than two weeks from enhanced unemployment checks being cut out. And 7 million kids don’t have enough food; 13 million people are behind in their rent. And the American Rescue Plan, I believe — and according to the polling data, the vast majority of Americans believe — is essential to giving them some help and to turn it around. And I think it’s going to provide immediate relief for millions of people that are going to be able to use it in a very constructive way and also grow the economy in the process. But it’s essential to getting kids back to school safely. It is also getting a lifeline to small businesses, many of whom — 400,000 — have gone under, affecting entire communities. And it is clearly, clearly necessary a lifeline for getting the upper hand against COVID-19 and getting it under control. That isn’t some academic discussion. It’s about you; it’s about people like you and the families I grew up with all over America. And, you know, you’ve all lived lives of service. You not only have taken care of yourself and your families, but you’ve lived lives of service to help other people as well. And so, as — again, this isn’t an academic discussion. You deserve our thanks and our support. And I’m going to hand it back to Cedric so we can hear from you all while the press is still in here. And you’re still employed? I have a lot of questions, but I’m going until we hear — while the press is here — to hear from all three people. I’d like to talk more about this, if I can. So am Well, thank you for — all of you for what you do. I carry a schedule card with me every day, and on back of the card, I list, on a daily basis, how many people have died from COVID in the United States. As of today, 517,224 — not over 500,000; 517,224. And we will meet the 100 million shots. We’re up to 82,572,848 shots. We’re going to get this done. I’m going to ask some questions now. The press is going to leave, and I’m going to get more personal with you, if I can, and ask some questions if it’s okay. Welcome, folks. Can you hear me in my mask? All right. We’re about to have an economic meeting, but I want to make a few very brief comments. Today’s jobs report shows that the American Rescue Plan is urgently needed, in our view. Now, our economy still has 9.5 million fewer jobs than it had this time last year. And at that rate, it would take two years to get us back on track. We have 1 million fewer educators — 1 million fewer educators — than we did this time last year. We’ve lost 400,000 small businesses. All of those empty storefronts aren’t just shattered dreams, they’re warning lights that are going off and state and local budgets that are being stretched because of the lack of tax revenue. And some of last month’s job growth is a result of the December relief package. But without a rescue plan, these gains are going to slow. We can’t afford one step forward and two steps backwards. We need to beat the virus, provide essential relief, and build an inclusive recovery. People need the help now. In less than two weeks, enhanced unemployment benefits will begin to expire for 11 million people. At least 7 million kids don’t have enough food to eat on a regular basis. Thirteen million people are behind in their rent. And the rescue plan is absolutely essential for turning this around, getting kids back to school safely, getting a lifeline to small business, and getting the upper hand on COVID-19. That’s what we’re going to be talking about now. So I thank you all for coming on in. Thank you. Yes. I tell you what: You did an incredible job. Appreciate it. I’m flattered you’d take the time to let me talk to you. I’ll be happy to do that. I’ll be happy to do that. Am I supposed to speak now or is Swati? Yeah. That’s right. Yep. It’s incredible talent. Now, am I supposed to speak or is Swati going to say something? I was told I was going to hear from Swati. Hey, Doc. How are you? I just want you to know — Are you kidding me? What an honor this is. This is an incredible honor. And it’s amazing. Indian — of descent — Americans are taking over the country: you; my Vice President; my speechwriter, Vinay. I tell you what. But thank you. You guys are incredible. Did you want to say something? I’ll be quiet. Well, I tell you what, you said you feel like you’re “living a dream” — you’ve created a dream for millions and millions of young kids, young Americans. You talk about STEM. You — it was — look, the thing that I found so exhilarating about this: You all did this — the whole team — the team I can see now and the entire team at JPL — what you did: You restored a dose of confidence in the American people. They were beginning to wonder about us. They were beginning to wonder: Are we still the country we always believed we were? You guys did it. You guys gave a sense of “America is back.” It‘s — it’s astounding what you did. You should not underestimate it. You should not underestimate it. You know, you did it the most American way: You believed in science, you believed in hard work, and you believed there wasn’t a darn thing you couldn’t do if you put your minds together. One of the reasons why we’re such an incredible country is we’re such a diverse country. We bring the best out of every single solitary culture in the world here in the United States of America, and we give people an opportunity to let their — let their dreams run forward. And you just — I can’t tell you how much — you know, everyone was so down the last years about: Is America still the — the, you know, the fount of change? And are we still the country that has hopes and develops and pursues the most unlikely things to happen? And we are. And you all demonstrated it. I’m not being — look, I’m not — I really mean this. It’s so much bigger than landing Perseverance on Mars. It’s about the American spirit, and you brought it back. You brought back in a moment we so desperately need it. I was reaching — I was talking to a head of state who was calling me about thanking me — or not thanking me — congratulating me on becoming President. And then I later heard from another head of state, saying, “America has changed so much. They — they used to be so competent to do great things, and here they can’t even deal with a coronavirus. Look how badly organized they are.” That was said by a head of state. And America’s image in the world — and it matters. It matters because democracies have to demonstrate they can run as efficiently and more efficiently than autocracies. There’s a big battle going on. Your kids are going to be studying about when democracy once again reestablished it could do anything, as opposed to autocracies that can just command things. I just — I just can’t tell you how much I believe historians are going to write about what you did at the moment you all did it — at the moment you all did it. You should take such great pride — such great pride in what you did. We can land a rover on Mars. We can beat a pandemic. And with science, hope, and vision, there’s not a damn thing we can’t do as a country. We have never, ever, ever failed to meet a goal. We’ve set our mind to it, and we’ve done it together. And that’s what you all showed. So it goes way beyond — way beyond the whole notion of what you just recently did. And God only knows what is going to come from this. God only knows what’s going to happen. But you all are incredible. All of the dreams you’ve created in other people’s minds — other young kids. I tell you what: I just wanted to thank you and tell you, you know, you — it just seems that, you know, we’re on the side of the angels. Just at the moment when things look like they’re really dark in America over our history, something has come along. Something has come along. And you guys came along and you did this. And so I just want to thank you from the bottom of my heart and tell you how presumptuous of me to say I’m proud of you, but I am so proud of you. And — and, Mike, the teamwork that still exists there, the importance of it, the consequence of what you’re doing — and it’s only just the start. I had a group of folks in my office not too long ago — House and Senate members — I mean, House members — Democrats, and Republicans — talking about infrastructure. And I have in the — on the shelf in my Oval Office, a moon rock. And they walked over and said, “This is actually a moon rock from the moon?” And I jokingly said, “You ain’t seen nothing yet. Wait until see what comes home from Mars.” So, anyway, folks, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You’re great Americans, and you’ve demonstrated it again: There’s not a thing we cannot do when we set our mind to it. God bless you all. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. And by the way, I’m like a poor relative, Mike. When I’m invited, I show up. So be careful. You know, the poor relatives, they show up even — They stay longer than they’re supposed to. I’m one of those kind of guys. I’m looking forward to seeing you all in person. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Bye bye. Godspeed. Hey, everybody. I brought a group of bipartisan leaders on infrastructure, among other things. We’re going to talk about infrastructure and American competitiveness and what we’re going to do to make sure we once again lead the world across the board in infrastructure. It’s a — it not only creates jobs, but it makes us a hell of a lot more competitive around the world if we have the best infrastructure in the world. We’re going to be talking about that. And I welcome all my colleagues here. And thank you all for coming on in. Thank you. I’ve been talking to a lot of my Republican friends in the House and the Senate, and continue to do that. And — and we have. We’ve met — had a number of meetings with Republicans on the coronavirus bill and — House, Senate, and a combination of both. So we’re keeping everybody informed. Am I comfort- — Yes. Thank you. I’m sorry. Can’t hear him. Thank you all for coming in. Thank you. Nancy, I love you. There’s no one I’d rather work with than you. We’ve been friends a long time — and your whole family, your daughters. And it — it’s just been a great relationship. And I think that Angie was absolutely correct that you’ve been the consummate leader. I’ve been here a long time, and there’s been no Speaker that’s been your equal, although there have been some great Speakers. And you just have a special way about you, Nancy. And you’re also very, very — which is important — you’re kind, but you’re tough. And you know what’s right, and you stick by it. And I admire the devil out of you. And I want to thank somebody I campaigned for — he was leading by 30 points until I campaigned for him, but he still won anyway — Hakeem Jeffries — and Vice Chair Aguilar for putting this conference together and including me. And I want to thank the entire leadership team and all your committee chairs for taking an important step in the American Rescue Plan last week. You all showed, at a time when the American people are depending on us — and they are desperately in need of us — that a diverse caucus isn’t a divided caucus. Congressman Clyburn, I also want to note that it was almost exactly a year ago today that you delivered the endorsement to me in South Carolina that meant so much to me and my campaign. And you’re a great friend. And on the night of the — that primary, America had confirmed only fewer than 100 COVID cases. That’s just a year ago. Breonna Taylor and George Floyd were still alive. California had yet to suffer the worst — the wor- — what would become the worst fire season in recorded history. And there’d been no violent insurrection on Capitol Hill. And I could go on. A lot’s changed. My point is this: In the year that has passed, all the challenge I spoke about that night — jobs and the economy; affordable, accessible healthcare; climate change; and the need to root out institutional racism; the need for unity and healing — have all become urgent — urgent, urgent, urgent — especially in light of the pandemic that has taken the lives — well, as of yesterday — 518,720, I believe it was, Americans — fellow Americans who have lost their lives. And more than 400,000 businesses — mostly small business, many minority businesses — have been shuttered; cost millions of jobs. 1.3 million public sector — education, nurses, cops, firefighters, essential workers — have lost their jobs. So my message today is really simple: You — you, this caucus, have shown the American people the difference Democratic leadership and what we just had. Leadership makes a difference. And you’re continuing to do so. For example, I know that this week you’re working on the “Protect Our Democracy” reforms, as well as the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act — both of which I strongly support. And I know that, in the past couple of days, you’ve had briefings and conversations on immigration, healthcare, foreign policy, climate crisis, and a lot more. And as you work on all of these, I urge you to continue to speak up and speak out about the American Rescue Plan. And here is why: You know, the confidence in the American — in the American government has been plummeting since the late ‘60s to what it is now. And many of you remember that in 2009, we expended a lot of political capital — Nancy and I and others — in the Recovery Act. It was — it was an act that had less than two-tenths of 1 percent waste or fraud in it, according to the experts, and the economists told us we literally saved America from a depression. But we didn’t adequately explain what we had done. Barack was so modest, he didn’t want to take, as he said, a “victory lap.” I kept saying, “Tell people what we did.” He said, “We don’t have time. I’m not going to take a victory lap.” And we paid a price for it, ironically, for that humility. And this is a case where every single piece of the bill you passed addresses a genuine, desperate need for the American people. Each piece isn’t just defensible, it is urgent and overwhelmingly supported by the people. It’s good policy and it’s good politics. And I’m not sure we’ve ever seen something that is needed as badly as the American Rescue Plan that was as broadly popular. Nancy and I have passed some really important things in our careers, but they haven’t always been — they’ve been badly needed, but they haven’t been overwhelmingly popular. Sir, I’ve served in the Congress for 36 years before becoming Vice President for 8. We never had anything this urgent and this ambitious that was so widely embraced. Three-quarters of the American are together with — on this. Three quarters. Nearly unanimous support among Democrats; more than 70 percent of independents. In poll after poll, 60 percent of Republicans — I’ll say that again — 60 percent of Republicans support what we’re doing. A bipartisan group of more than 425 mayors, Democrat and Republican. The AFL-CIO and business leaders. Look, the show of unity we’re seeing is unprecedented. It isn’t just about the sum of the total package; Americans are in lockstep on each major element of the plan, and they know what they are. They support what we’re doing on vaccines. Look at the progress we’ve made with your help. We’ve been able to move us to the point where we had very little supply, to we will have enough vaccine because of the work we’ve done with your help — enough vaccine by the end of May to be able to vaccinate every single adult in America. It will not be done by then, but that supply will be there. They support what we’re doing on direct payments, on unemployment insurance, on food and nutrition support, on keeping people in their homes, on safely reopening our schools. Staying unified as we complete this process to pass the American Rescue Plan won’t just make a difference in our fight against COVID-19 and our efforts to rebuild the economy, it will also show the American people we’re capable of coming together for what matters most to them. They’ve lost faith in government; this is a time to reestablish that faith. And the reason why they should have faith is because we’re doing the right thing. It’s a show of strength and a first step forward to restoring their faith in the capacity of government to have their backs. And if we deliver on this, it also builds momentum. It builds real mome- — enthusiasm as well. And I will make everything else we want to deliver — this will make everything more possible to get it done. That’s why starting off this victory is so important, because it’s so consequential to their lives. And we know how much we have to do, but all starts — it all starts here. It starts by bringing this home — bringing home what you’ve done all the way. And I know we’re all making some small compromises, but I want to thank you. I want to thank you for the work you’ve done. I want to thank you for the work we’re going to continue to do. I know parts of this — and everything else we seek to do — are not easy, but people are going to remember how we showed up in this moment, how we listened to them — to them — not special interests; to them — and how we took action. I believe we’re going to come through this, and I think that people’s memories will be long. And if we continue to stay laser focused on getting shots in people’s arms, responding to the economic crisis, it’s going to open up a lot of hearts and a lot of doors for us tomorrow to do the many more things we know we have to do. So I want to thank you all. I really mean it from the bottom — I want to thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I’m happy to take questions if that’s what you — I’m supposed to do, Nance. Whatever you want me to do. Hey, everyone. Thanks. Thanks for coming in. These are members of the House, Senate — Democrat, Republican — who all have an extremely keen interest in doing what — what I said once before: that I’d love to be the President to preside over the end of cancer as we know it. These are the folks in the House and Senate who would love to preside over cancer — the end of cancer as we know it. And they were — all were critical in the CARES Act, which put about $9 billion into NIH to deal with cancer and cancer research. And the Vice President and I are of the view that we can make significant strides in fighting cancer and Alzheimer’s and other diseases, if we take a slightly different approach. And what I want to talk with them about today is how we go about taking advantage of the work they’ve done to get us where we are today, because I think we’re on the cusp of some real breakthroughs across the board on cancer. And that’s what we’re going to talk about. And probably to all of you, like all of us, cancer is personal for almost everybody. It’s probably the one word that is the most frightening word in the English language to people. When they hear that “C word,” cancer, it is — it is just devastating. And I always ask at — when I talk about cancer, I ask the audience if they — to raise their hand, if any of them were suffering from cancer as I spoke, and/or they lost someone, and virtually 70 percent of every audience — whether or not it’s 4,000 people or 400 people. And a lot of folks in this room have, like many of you maybe have been victims of cancer and overcome it. But there’s so much hope that that’s what I want to talk about with these folks — about what we do, from a legislative and a substance point of view, to make the kind of inroads I think we can make. That’s what we’re talking about today. Thank you for coming in. And we’re — I’m optimistic we’re going to get something done here. We are following that through right now. Thank God no one was killed by the rocket. One individual, a contractor, died of a heart attack. But we’re identifying who is responsible, and we’ll make judgments from that point. Okay? Thank you. I didn’t hear the question. Texas — I think it’s a big mistake. Look, I hope everybody has realized by now: These masks make a difference. We are on the cusp of being able to fundamentally change the nature of this disease because of the way in which we’re able to get vaccines in people’s arms. We’ve been able to move that all the way up to the end of May to have enough for every American to get — every adult American to get a shot. And the last thing — the last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking that, in the meantime, everything is fine, take off your mask. Forget it. It still matters. I carry a card with me — I don’t have it. I put it on my desk. As of last — as of yesterday, we had lost 511,874 Americans. We’re going to lose thousands more. This will not occur — we’ll not have everybody vaccinated until sometime in the summer. We have the vaccine to do it. Getting a shot in someone’s arm and getting the second shot are going to take time. And it’s critical — critical, critical, critical — that they follow the science: Wash your hands — hot water; do it frequently. Wear a mask. And stay socially distanced. And I know you all know that. I wish the heck some of our elected officials knew it. So thank you very much. Good afternoon, folks. The Vice President and I have some good news to report, and I’d like to make two key announcements today related to our COVID-19 vaccination effort. As you know, a few days ago, after a rigorous opening — open and objective scientific review process, the Food and Drug Administration issued an emergency use authorization for the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. We should all be encouraged by this news of a third safe and highly effective COVID-19 vaccine. The more people who get vaccinated, the faster we’re going to overcome this virus and get back to our loved ones, get our economy back on track, and start to move back to normal. But that’s — one of my first goals in office was — when I got into office was to say that there will be 100 million vaccination shots administered in my first 100 days in office. We’ve got halfway to that goal in 37 days, and I feel confident we’ll make it all the way. As I — and as I’ve said, we have a long way to go, but, you know, as I said from the outset, we’re going to use every resource of the federal government to make it happen. Among the things I learned when I came into office was that Johnson & Johnson was behind in manufacturing and production. While we pote- — while we had the potential of another highly effective vaccine to accompany the two existing vaccines, it simply wasn’t coming fast enough. So my team — my team has been hard at work to accelerate that effort. As I’ve always said, this was a wartime effort, and every action has been on the table, including putting together breakthrough approaches. And today, we’re announcing a major step forward: Two of the largest healthcare and pharmaceutical companies in the world — that are usually competitors — are working together on the vaccine. Johnson & Johnson and Merck will work together to expand the production of Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine. This is the type of collaboration between companies we saw in World War Two. We also invoked the Defense Production Act to equip two Merck facilities to the standards necessary to safely manufacture the J&J vaccine. And with the urging and assistance of my administration, Johnson & Johnson is also taking additional new actions to safely accelerate vaccine production. Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine manufacturing facilities will now begin to operate 24/7. In addition, we’ll continue to use the Defense Production Act to expedite critical materials in vaccine production, such as equipment, machinery, and supplies. I’ve also asked the Department of Defense to provide daily logistical support to strengthen Johnson & Johnson’s efforts. And I want to thank Johnson & Johnson and Merck for stepping up and being good corporate citizens during this national crisis. Here’s what all this means: We’re now on track to have enough vaccine supply for every adult in America by the end of May. Let me say that again: When I came into office, the prior administration had contracted for not nearly enough vaccine to cover adults in America. We rectified that. About three weeks ago, we were able to say that we’ll have enough vaccine supply for adults by the end of July. And I’m pleased to announce today, as a consequence of the stepped-up process that I’ve ordered and just outlined, this country will have enough vaccine supply — I’ll say it again — for every adult in America by the end of May. By the end of May. That’s progress — important progress. But it’s not enough to have the vaccine supply. We need vaccinators — people to put the shots in people’s arms, millions of Americans’ arms. To date, we’ve brought back retired doctors and nurses. We’ve developed — we deployed more than 1,500 federal medical personnel you usually see during natural disasters, from the Federal Emergency Management Agency — FEMA — and the Commissioned Health Corps at the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Defense Department, including the National Guard, with thousands of more to come. We’re also increasing the places where people can get vaccinated. We’ve sent millions of vaccines to over 7,000 pharmacies to make it easier for folks to get their COVID-19 vaccine shot like they would their flu shot. The federal government is also working with states to set up hundreds of mass vaccination centers in places like stadiums, community centers, parking lots that vaccinate thousands of people per day. My wife Jill and I just visited one in Houston last week. It’s incredible. And with this increased production of three safe and effective vaccines, we have an opportunity to help address the urgent national need more quickly and getting our schools back open safely. Right now, an entire generation of young people is on the brink of being set back a year or more in their learning. You can ask millions of parents; they understand. We’re already seeing rising mental health concerns due in part to isolation. Educational disparities that have always existed grow wider each day that our schools remain closed. And remote learning isn’t the same for every student, as you all know. Our educators are doing everything they can to protect and educate our students, despite the lack of resources and as districts face budget crises that risk education jobs. Moms and dads are exiting the workforce in astonishing numbers in order to care for and manage the school experience for their children at home, hindering their own opportunities for — and further undermining the health of our economy. This is a national imperative that we get our kids back into the classroom safely and as soon as possible. As you know, back in December, I set a goal of having a majority of our K-through-8 schools open by the end of my first 100 days as President. To achieve that goal, I sent the American Rescue Plan to Congress to provide vital help to make sure schools can open safely — reopen safely. Essential things like more teachers to reduce class sizes, more buses and bus drivers to transport our kids safely, and more space to conduct in-person instructions, and more protective equipment, school cleaning services, physical alterations to reduce the risk of the spread of the virus. All cost money. The House passed the American Rescue Plan last week, and I hope the Senate will follow as quickly and as well. You know, also, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC, issued new guidelines on how to reopen schools safely. It’s a roadmap that will enable schools — if they have the resources they deserve — to reopen safely. I have given those schools a roadmap. I’ve asked Congress to give them the tools. And today, to add one more tool to school reopening: a vaccinated workforce. Let me be clear: We can reopen schools if the right steps are taken, even before employees are vaccinated. But time and again, we’ve heard from educators and parents that they have anxieties about that. So as yet another move to help accelerate the safe reopening of our schools, let’s treat in-person learning like an essential service that it is. And that means getting essential workers who provide that service — educators, school staff, childcare workers — get them vaccinated immediately. They’re essential workers. Over 30 states have already taken step to prior- –prioritize educators for vaccination. And today, I’m using the full authority of the federal government. I’m directing every state to do the same. My challenge to all states, territories, and the District of Columbia is this: We want every educator, school staff member, childcare worker to receive at least one shot by the end of the month of March. To help make this happen, starting next week and for a month — the month of March, we will be using our federal pharmacy program to prioritize the vaccination of pre-K through 12 educators and staff and child-care workers. Throughout March, they will be able to prioritize the vaccination of pre-K-through-12 educators and staff and childcare workers. Throughout March, they will be able to sign up for an appointment at a pharmacy near them. And I want to be very clear: Not every educator will be able to get their appointment in the first week, but our goarl [sic] — goal is to do everything we can to help every educator receive a shot this month, the month of March. I want to conclude with this: We’re making progress from the mess we inherited. We’re moving in the right direction. And today’s announcements are a huge step in our effort to beat this pandemic. But I have to be honest with you: This fight is far from over. I told you I’d be straight up with you from the beginning. As I said many times, things may get worse again as new variants spread and as we face setbacks, like recent winter storms in the Midwest and South. But our administration will never take this public health threat lightly. Though we celebrate the news of the third vaccine, I urge all Americans: Please keep washing your hands, stay socially distanced, wear masks — keep wearing them, get vaccinated when it’s your turn. Now is not the time to let up. I’ve asked the country to wear masks for my first 100 days in office. Now is not the time to let our guard down. People’s lives are at stake. We have already — we have already — and I carry this in my pocket — lost more — as of today, we’ve lost more than 511,839 Americans, as of today. It’s got to stop. We need the United States Senate to follow the House and pass the American Rescue Plan, because despite the optimism, without new resources, our entire effort will be set back. We need the resources in the American Rescue Plan and we need it urgently. We need them expanding testing, ramp up vaccine distribution, fund FEMA and other federal vaccine efforts, and continue reimbursing states for their efforts. We need the resources to expand genomic sequencing; to stay ahead of emerging variants; find the protective gear, transportation, staffing, and other costs required for school and business to open safely. We need to fund it. The bottom line is: We need the American Rescue Plan now. Now. There is light at the end of the tunnel, but we cannot let our guard down now or assure that victory is inevitable. We can’t assume that. We must remain vigilant, act fast and aggressively, and look out for one another. That’s how we’re going to get ahead of this virus, get our economy going again, and get back to our loved ones. So thank you. And please, please, it’s not over yet. Great news, but stay vigilant. May God bless you, and may God protect our troops. Thank you all very, very much. When do I think things will get back to normal? I’ve been cautioned not to give an answer to that because we don’t know for sure. But my hope is, by this time next year, we’re going to be back to normal, and before that — my hope. But again, it depends upon if people continue — continue to be smart and understand that we still can have significant losses. There’s a lot we have to do yet. So thank you. Yes, I did. A lot. No, we’ll be able to handle it, God willing. It’s great to be with you, Mr. President. You know, this is — my second call to a foreign leader in my third day as President was you. And now you’re my second virtual meeting with a foreign leader, and that’s not by accident. The important of our relation- — the importance of our relationship with Mexico is vital to a North American partnership we have and paramount to all the elements of my administration’s priorities. So I’m delighted to be with you. Of the 16 visits I made to Latin America and the Caribbean as Vice President, four of them were to Mexico, and I was honored to meet you on one of those visits, Mr. President. During my visits, I got to know Mexico a little bit and its people, and paid my respects to the Virgin of Guadalupe. As a matter of fact, I still have my rosary beads that my son was wearing when he passed. And I walked the beautiful and historic cobblestones of Mexico City and spoke with Mexicans of all walks of life. And I treasure those memories, and I hope to be able to build on them in the next four years. Mr. President, this is what I know: The United States and Mexico are stronger when we stand together. There’s a long and complicated history between our nations, and haven’t always been perfect neighbors with one another, but we have seen over and over again the power and the purpose when we cooperate. And we’re safer when we work together, whether it’s addressing the challenges of our shared border or getting this pandemic under control. In the Obama-Biden administration, we made a commitment that we look at Mexico as an equal, not as somebody who is south of our border. You are equal. And what you do in Mexico and how you succeed impacts dramatically on what the rest of the hemisphere will look like. And as you know, the fastest-growing population in the United States is Hispanic. And 60 percent of the Hispanic population is Mexican-American. They’re an integral part of our history, and I keep a bust of a civil rights leader, Chávez — César Chávez — in my Oval Office as a reminder. And, Mr. President, I’m looking forward to our discussion today and to the many ways we’ll have to work together as neighbors and partners in meeting our shared challenges. And thank you for doing this. PRESIDENT LÓPEZ Well, thank you, Mr. President. I’m going to ask the press whether they’d be kind enough to exit shortly here. I’d appreciate it. Thank you very, very much. Thank you. We’re going to talk about that. Thank you. Good morning, folks. For a few weeks now, an overwhelming percentage of the American public has made it clear that they support my American Rescue Plan. And the House of Representatives took the first step toward making it a reality. And I want to thank — and I called her just a few moments ago — Nancy Pelosi for her extraordinary — Speaker Pelosi — for her extraordinary leadership and all those who supported our plan. And with their vote, we are one step closer to vaccinating the nation. We are one step closer to putting $1,400 in the pockets of Americans. We are one step closer to extending unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who are shortly going to lose them. We’re one step closer to helping millions of Americans feed their families and keep a roof over their head. We’re one step closer to getting our kids safely back in school. And we’re one step closer to getting state and local governments the money they need to prevent massive layoffs for essential workers. Now — now the bill moves to the United States Senate where I hope it will receive quick action. I have — we have no time to waste. If we act now — decisively, quickly, and boldly — we can finally get ahead of this virus. We can finally get our economy moving again. And the people of this country have suffered far too much for too long. We need to relieve that suffering. The American Rescue Plan does just that: It relieves the suffering. And it’s time to act. I thank you all for being here. I appreciate it. You’re all being very polite. You’ve been with me all day, and it’s dinner time. Good afternoon — or almost. Actually, it’s evening. And I want to thank you, Governor and Mrs. Abbott, for your hospitality and your friendship. And Representative — Senator Cornyn, I think he had to go back; I think he’s getting on a plane. He told me last — he came in to see me last event. And Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee, Al Green, Sylvia Garcia, Lizzie Pannilli [sic] — excuse me, Pannill [Fletcher] — and — what am I doing here? I’m going to lose track here. And Mayor Turner, Judge Hidalgo. Thank you all for welcoming us. And Jill and I wanted to visit Texas today for a couple of reasons: First and foremost, to let the people of Texas know our prayers are with you in the aftermath of this winter storm. And secondly, to let you know what I told Governor Abbott and Mayor Turner and Judge Hidalgo and the congressional delegation: that we will be true partners to help you recover and rebuild from the storms and this pandemic and the economic crisis. We’re in for the long haul. Earlier today, we received an update on the storm relief efforts from — from Harris County, at the Harris County Emergency Operations Center. The folks there are doing God’s work, as my mother would say. It was an important update on how the federal government and the states are working together through the major disaster declaration and the emergency declarations that I made after the storm hit when the governor contacted me. The Federal Emergency Management, FEMA, is providing millions of gallons of water and millions of meals, direct assistance, to uninsured homeowners to repair the damage burst pipes caused to millions of homes across this state. And the public assistance that comes with a disaster declaration ensures that mayors and county officials can find shelter for folks in need and keep them safe and warm. This in addition to the more than 125,000 blankets FEMA has also made available to storm victims so children and families don’t go to sleep cold. FEMA, working with the Defense Logistics Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers from the Defense Department, has made generators and diesel fuel available to hospitals and nursing homes and other critical facilities to keep the lights on and speed power restoration along the way. Many local military bases are helping efforts to distribute water and food, fuel, and blankets all across this state. And I especially want to thank the service members for helping your fellow Americans in time of need. When we have a problem, we always call on the military — domestic or foreign — no matter what. You’re the best in the world. And I know millions of Texans have been impacted by the disruption of community water systems as a result of the power outages. The Environmental Protection Agency has deployed mobile drinking water labs in Houston, San Antonio, and Fort Worth to test water so we can get the — so you can get boil water advisories lifted and get safe drinking water flowing through those faucets again. There’s more, but let me say this: We’re not here today as Democrats or Republicans. We’re here today as Americans. The American leaders, with responsibility — all of us here in this parking lot — responsibility to all the people we serve. When a crisis hits our states, like the one that hit Texas, it’s not a Republican or Democrat who’s hurting; it’s our fellow Americans who are hurting. And it’s our job to help everyone in need. Look out for one another. Leave nobody behind. That’s what we’ve seen today on our visit. After our briefing on the storm relief, we stopped by the Houston Food Bank that’s also doing God’s work — incredible operation — just like everyone else here in this — in the vaccination center. They’ve done thousands of people. Thousands of people. It’s making — making a fundamental difference in the safety and security of people. The more people get vaccinated, the faster we will beat this pandemic. That’s why one of my first steps and my first goals as President was to announce that I was going to get 100 million COVID vaccine shots administered in my first 100 days. And because of the people behind me and others, America would be the — is going to be the first in the country — perhaps the first in the world — to get that done. And I’m proud to say we’re halfway there: 50 million shots. Actually, I — I was telling the congressman earlier, I carry a little card with me. And it lists, every day, the number of — the actual number of vaccines that have been administered. As of today, five- — as of last night, 503,587 — every single one matters — in just 37 days. Weeks ahead of schedule. We’re weeks ahead of schedule. Even with setbacks from the winter storm, we’re moving in the right direction. Look, in the last six weeks, we’ve gone from 6 million shots right before we took office, in total, to 12 million shots per week now. We’ve increased vaccine distribution by 70 percent. Sixty percent of the people over the age of six- — sixty percent of the people over the age of 75 have received at least one shot. Close to 50 percent of the people over the age of 65 got at least one shot. And you say, why am I focused on that? Well, it’s especially important because people over the age of 65 account for 80 percent of all the COVID deaths. Eighty percent. Roughly 75 percent of the people who live in long-term care facilities now have gotten their first dose, and those cases are at the lowest level since reporting began in May. We’re making this progress because of all of you. The federal government and the states are working together along with public and private partners. It starts with supply. We worked with vaccine manufacturers — Pfizer and Moderna — to ensure we have enough supply to supply all adults in America by the end of July. And we discovered that vaccine manufacturers, though, weren’t getting prioritized when it came to securing supplies they needed to fix their problem of not being able to go more rapidly. So I used the Defense Production Act to speed up the supply chain for key equipment that’s already helped increase vaccine production. Last week, I toured the Pfizer vaccine manufacturing facility in Kalamazoo, Michigan. It’s incredible — the precision, the safety, the pride, the sense of purpose — everyone involved at that facility. And we’ve all seen the news about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine today. It’s just the third safe, effective vaccine. And it’s out. They’ve approved it today. We’re going to use every conceivable way to expand manufacturing of the vaccine — the third vaccine — to make even more rapid progress at getting shots in people’s arms. Here’s what else we’re doing: We’re increasing the number of vaccinators. The people putting the — it’s one thing to have the vaccine; it’s another thing to get it in people’s arms. We’ve brought back retired doctors and nurses by executive order, allowing that to happen. We’ve already deployed more than 1,500 professionals — medical professionals — you see during natural disasters from FEMA, our Commissioned Corps from the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Defense Department, including the National Guard. And we’re lining up thousands more. We’re also setting up more places to get vaccinated. And today — as of today, we provided $3.8 billion to states, territories, and tribes — — to create hundreds of new vaccination centers and ramp up existing ones. We’re providing personnel and equipment, and we’re covering the costs for states, including the use of their National Guards. Here in Texas, it’s meant millions of dollars and hundreds of vaccinators working at community vaccination centers and three mass vaccination centers in Arlington, Dallas, and right here in Houston, on the other side here, that vaccinate thousands of Texans a day. Tens of thousands overall. I want to show the American people the extraordinary effort being made and undertaken in the most difficult operational challenge this nation has ever faced logistically. It’s remarkable. About 6,000 doses a day here. Folks who are eligible can call by phone, sign up online for an appointment, drive in, stay in their cars, and get a shot. In and out in a very short amount of time. It requires massive logistical coordination and critical federal support from FEMA and the National Guard to work with cities and states, and the Houston Texans, to stand up this kind of site. Vice President Harris and I did a virtual tour of a similar vaccination center in Arizona. One nurse — one nurse there said — she talked about the shots, talking how many they were getting in people’s arms, and she said she felt like she was administering — and get this — a “dose of hope.” A dose of hope. We’re working with governors across the country to stand up and lend federal support to hundreds of vaccination centers — from stadiums, like here, to community centers, to houses of worship, large parking lots, delivery places. Doses of hope we can get in people’s arms as quickly as possible. I’ve also sent millions of vaccines to thousands of local pharmacies — over 7,000 — to make it easier for folks to get the COVID-19 vaccine shot like they would a flu shot, because people are comfortable going to their local pharmacy. They go there for their flu shot and everything else. They trust the pharmacist, and they’re likely to go. Here in Texas, that includes 500 pharmacies across this state, like Walmart and CVS, including 50 pharmacies here in Houston. And for the folks who didn’t live near a vaccination center or a pharmacy, we’re deploying mobile clinics to go out to those neighborhoods in rural areas where people are unable to get to the centers. These are special vehicles with pop-up clinics that meet folks where they live and where they don’t have the transportation to get the shots, which they’ll be launching very soon here in Houston — that mobile — those mobile units — as well as Dallas, Arlington, and across the state. We’ve also started to send vaccines directly to community health centers to help the hard-to-reach folks in cities, small towns, and rural communities in black, Latino, and Native American communities that have higher rates of COVID-19 infections and deaths than any other group. Here in Texas, we’re already partnering with 12 community health centers in 10 cities, which have combined sites at over 100 locations across the entire state. We’re going to save people’s lives. As a result of these round-the-clock efforts, in five weeks, America has administered the most shots of any country in the world. That’s great progress. And it’s also true that while COVID-19 vaccinations are up, COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations are down. But I need to be honest with you. I said from the beginning — like Roosevelt who said, I’ll shoot you “straight from the shoulder” — you can handle anything as long as you’re told the truth. Cases and hospitalizations could go back up with new — as new variants emerge. And it’s not the time to relax. We have to keep washing our hands, staying socially distanced. And for God’s sake, wear your mask. Wear your mask. It’s not a political statement; it’s a patriotic thing to do. Some of our progress in this fight is because so many Americans are stepping up and doing these things. And the worst thing we could do now would be let our guard down. And here’s another critical point: We’re going to hit a phase in this effort, maybe late April or early May, when many predict there will be ramped-up vaccine supply and we’ll have administered shots to most of the people who really are eager to get them and those who have been able to get there. But at the same time, the warning is: There’ll be people who live in hard-to-reach areas who can’t get the shots, and there are folks who are hesitant to take the shots. We all know there’s a history in this country of subjugating certain communities to terrible medical and scientific abuse. But if there’s one message that needs to cut through all of this: The vaccines are safe. I promise you. They are safe and effective. Listen to Dr. Fauci. Listen to the scientists who developed them through extensive and rigorous review. I did. And I took my shot publicly to demonstrate to the American people it’s safe and effective. To address this challenge, we’re going to launch a massive campaign to educate people about the vaccines — that they are safe and effective, and that they can go and get those shots and be good. I’m going to close with this: This past year has been one of the most painful years in American history. As I said, we’ve lost over 500,000 lives to the virus. Five hundred thousand moms and dads, husbands and wives, sons and daughters staring at an empty chair at that dining room table or the kitchen table; friends, neighbors, co-workers, and over the country — all over the country where the loved ones who are gone — they’re gone. Empty. Empty feeling in your chest, like you’re being sucked into a black hole in your chest. But all over the country, where loved ones once sat, there’s an empty chair. And, folks, look, there’s so much we can do. As you see the broken hearts in the families that have been left behind, there’s nothing partisan about this virus. It’s too long we have allowed the virus to divide us. I met today with Governor Abbott, Senator Cornyn — conservative Republicans. I’m a Democratic President. We disagree on plenty of things, and there’s nothing wrong with that. But there are plenty of things we can work on together, and one of them is represented right here today: the effort to speed up vaccinations. We’re not giving shots to Democrats or Republicans. I say it again: We’re giving shots to Americans. All across the country, we’ve got members of the Armed Forces, FEMA, volunteers, retirees, fellow Americans working around the clock to give these shots. And they’re building on the work of scientists, researchers, doctors, and nurses. And my team at the White House, which is coordinating all of this, is first rate. None of this has a partisan tinge or a partisan element to it. This can be a great American achievement — being the only country in the world to reach 100 million shots in 100 days. This could unite us as a country — to vaccinate America, to protect America, to heal America. And I know we can do this. Why? Because I know America can do great things when we do it together. I know my family spent a lot of time here in Houston, by the way, at — hey, John Eddie. How are you, buddy? I didn’t see you there. At Houston, at MD Anderson, when our son Beau was being treated for glioblastoma before he passed away. Just yesterday, I saw MD Anderson announce its joint — he joined four — they joined four other major cancer hospitals to help break down the silos that make real progress in this effort difficult. Now they’re sharing data and information. That wasn’t going on four or five years ago. We’re going to beat cancer. I know we will. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: If there is just one thing — one thing — I could be known for as President, it would be to end — the President who, during his era, ended cancer as we know it. But then, last week — — guess what? — we also landed a rover on Mars. We — led by a NASA team in Pasadena, California. A rover carries instruments developed by a team here in Houston that will be used in the mission of our time and our dreams. Imagine. We tell — everybody has been so down the last number of years about what America — what can we do? Who are — we can do anything! America can do anything. And now we see the images that are truly stunning: battling COVID, beating cancer, going to Mars. If there’s one thing I know about America, it’s this: Americans never give up. They never give in. They never cry uncle. They just struggle, innovate, and they preserve — and persevere. We’re going to get through all of this, I promise you. And we’re going to do it together. Together. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. You’re the best. We can do all of this, guys. I promise you. We can do this. Nobody in the world can compete with us when we’re together. Thank you all so very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Andrew. I appreciate it a lot. I appreciate your friendship. Let me start by saying: Guaranteed, if we’re able to, we’ll not only have you next — next year, at this time, for the governors’ conference, but we’ll have whatever food you want. We can go around to each one of you. We just order individually. But all kidding aside, I’m anxious to see — I wish you could all be here because it’s much better if we’re all — we all do better when we’re able to look at each other in the eye and know what we’re talking about. But thank you. Some of you have been here in the meantime, but I hope to have the governors’ conference here next year, God willing. You know, I’ve been talking to several of you quite a lot — a bit lately. And as you know, we have approved disaster declarations in Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana. In Texas, FEMA was already on the ground providing support for COVID-19 vaccination efforts. So they were able to move quickly to supply generators, food, blankets, and, most importantly, water. And, Governor Abbott, I don’t want to ruin your reputation, but I look forward to coming down tomorrow, to Houston, to be with you. And I want you and the residents to know that we’re here to provide the federal assistance you need to support your state, your local, and tribal response efforts. And it’s clear that even when the immediate crisis passes, there’s going to be more work to be done to help constituents recover. And my administration will be there every step of the way with you because when people in this country need help, they’re not Democrats or Republicans; they’re all Americans. And people who need work, they’re the people getting sick from COVID, and people facing eviction, people going hungry, people struggling with the opioid crisis, and people who need broadband. They’re not Democrats or Republicans; they’re our fellow Americans. And I think the whole spirit of this governors’ conference and our administration is changing the attitude a little bit about how we deal with one another — at least I hope so. As governors, you know this: You know that you have one job, and that’s to deliver. You’re on the frontlines — to overuse that phrase, but it’s hard to overuse it. And as the saying goes, “You’re the laboratories of democracy.” Your challenges can provide — prove to be lessons for everybody. Your successes can prove to be a model for everybody. The storms that hit the south were a painful reminder that so many of our challenges don’t stop at our border of our states. They don’t make distinctions based on how the state is made up. Today, I want to focus on two of those challenges that cross borders: COVID and the economy. You know better than I do: As you know, the ability to deal with one will determine our ability to address the other. On Monday, our nation passed a grim, grim milestone: COVID-19 has now taken over 500,000 of our fellow Americans. That’s more than died in World War I, World War II, and the Vietnam War combined. And most governors, that’s more than the population of your largest cities in your state or your territories — gone. Gone. And as a country, we have to remember those we lost but particularly those we left behind. But as we remember, we also have to act to end the politics of misinformation that has divided families, communities, and the country, and that has cost too many lives already. We have to fight this together, as one, to state the obvious. I know you all know this. As a friend of mine, you say you not only understand me, but you over-stand me. We’re the United States of America, and this cruel winter is not over. And if we come together, we can usher a more hopeful spring. We can usher it in. And that’s what we’re working to do together. As you know, I came into office, and I set a goal which was mocked for — by some; none of you, but by some. I set a goal of saying we’re going to do 100 million shots — get 100 million shots in people’s arms in my first 100 days as President. I directed Jeff Zients, my COVID Response Coordinator, to lead my administration and work with vaccine manufacturers to buy more vaccines and speed up delivery. We used, as some of you have suggested, the Defense Production Act to speed up supply chains for key equipment like fill pumps and filters, which have helped increase vaccine production. We’ve increased vaccine allocations as — as Andrew said — as the Governor said — to your states by almost 70 percent since coming into office, whatever number days ago it’s been — 37 or something like that. We secured enough vaccine to supply 300 million Americans — 300 million — to take care of all their needs, in terms of vaccination, by the end of July. And we’re all — and we’ve all seen in the news that Johnson & Johnson vaccine is — if the FDA approved the use of this new vaccine, we would plan to roll out as quickly as Johnson & Johnson can make the vaccine. Of course, it’s not just getting the vaccines; it’s getting the vaccines in arms. And this is another place where your work and our partnership is making a big difference. I’ve signed an order to allow retired doctors and nurses to give shots. We’ve deployed — as you referenced indirectly, at least, Andrew — we’ve deployed over 1,500 federal personnel as vaccinators, and we’re funding 1,200 of your Guardsmen and women to serve as vaccinators as well. And we’re paying for your Guard for that purpose. We’ll work with you to create more places where Americans can get vaccinated, supporting communities in high-volume vaccine centers and across your states. The result is that we have doubled the daily vaccination rate from where it was when we took office, and we’ve completed 50 million shots in 37 days. And we’re now — we’ve now given more shots than any nation in the entire world. Nearly 60 percent of people over the age of 75 have now received at least one shot. It was 14 percent six weeks ago. Close to 50 percent — because of your help — of the people over 65 have received one shot. It was 8 percent six weeks ago. And this is so important because people over 65, as you know better than anyone, account for 80 percent — 80 percent of all the COVID deaths. Additionally, about 75 percent of the people who live in long-term care facilities have gotten their first dose. And those cases are at their lowest level since reporting began in May. At the same time, we’re also delivering more than 25 million masks — ordered this last week — 25 million masks to over 60,000 food pantries, soup kitchens, community health centers all across America, helping protect some of our nation’s most vulnerable people. And all — and these are all necessary steps to helping the economy rebuild. Necessary steps, not only — but not only steps; it’s enough to build back to where we were before. We need to build back better. And we — I think we — all of us know how to do that. We remember what happened in the states back in 2008: Hundreds of thousands of jobs disappeared every month in that Great Recession. And we passed the Recovery Act. We provided state and local fiscal aid. We sent funding to your school districts to help save over 300,000 education jobs. We provided middle-class tax relief. We invested in the future, rebuilding roads and bridges; making the biggest clean energy investment in history and the single biggest investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower’s interstate highway program. And we created, in the process — you all created in the process over thousands — hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs. Now, economists tell us that saved us from a depression. Well, that’s the approach I think we need to take today. But there’s one big difference: We need to be more ambitious right now. The greatest risk from all the major economists, from Wall Street to overseas to — to the major think tanks, is that we don’t do enough of what is needed; it’s when we do too little. You know, in every one of your states and territories, red and blue, millions of Americans are hurting badly. We see it in ways that we’ve never expected in America. Four hundred thousand small businesses gone in an instant. Gone. People who thought they had secure jobs out of work, due to no fault of their own. The difference here is people are hurting through no fault of their own. Lines miles long in your states. People who never ever, ever, ever thought they’d ever have to worry about going hungry, waiting for someone to put a box of groceries in their trunk. Women’s participation in the workforce — you all know this — is driven to its lowest level in more than three decades. So many women are facing the devastating choice between a paycheck, and care and education of their child. Our cities and towns have shed 1.3 million jobs since just last March: educators, nurses, cops, firefighters, other essential workers. The economic toll of this pandemic continues to tear through our country as brutally as the virus itself. And so we need to comfort [confront] the economic — you know, we just have to step up. The economic toll we have to address with the same aggressiveness and seriousness of purpose as we do the virus. And that’s what the American Rescue Plan does. Instead of chasing COVID-19, it allows us to get ahead of it with more testing, supplies, vaccinations. It gets our kids back to school safely — many of you are already doing that — so students can catch up on learning they’ve lost, and parents can finally catch a break. The American Rescue Plan finishes the job of getting a total of two hundred thou- — or $20,000 to — direct payments to people. Getting direct relief to people is a lifeline for them and it bumps our economy into higher gear. And there’s more to the American Rescue Plan, and much more it will do: provide flexible aid to your cities and states to help essential workers stay in the job and essential services keep going. It provides rent relief, food, and nutrition, and assistance to millions of children and families facing hunger. And the American Rescue Plan also expands access to affordable childcare that’s going to enable parents, particularly mothers, to get back to work. It provides assistance to mom-and-pop small businesses that are the engines of our economic growth and the glue of our communities. And it covers the cost of paid leave for businesses whose workers are sickened by COVID-19. And it fills an important gap in our nation’s safety net that helps reduce the spread of the virus. I could go on. I’m probably already going on too long. But, you know, you know a lot of it already because the plan was created to include many of the things you have individually and collectively asked me for in recent conversations. The bottom line is: The American Rescue Plan meets the moment. An analysis by — an analysis by Moody’s estimates that it will help the economy create 7 million more jobs this year alone. And it would be on the way to another 18 million jobs, Moody’s estimates, would be created over the next four years with our Build Back Better recovery plan. Look, what we do now will determine whether we build from a position of strength or whether we lose years of sluggish and unequal recovery. And the only way to contain this pandemic and help the American people as quickly as possible is passing the plan as quickly as possible. The vast majority the American people from both parties support it, according to the data. I’m grateful to many of you, Democrats and Republicans, who have expressed support as well. We are not the type of nation that can or will stand by and watch our people suffer needlessly through no fault of their own. It goes against our conscience. It goes against sound economics. It’s not who we are. We’re people who know that there’s nothing we’ve ever failed to do when we’ve set our mind to doing it. So let’s get this done. I’ve gotten over 400 mayors contacted me to get this plan passed. A lot of you have moved to do that. Send millions of Americans — wherever they live, whoever they voted for — a strong message that help and hope are on the way. We can do this. And I hope that Jill and I, as I said, can welcome you all to the White House next year’s — for next year’s meeting. And may God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. We got a lot to do, guys, but we can do it. Well, thank you all. Dr. Fauci, thanks for your leadership, thanks for being here. Two weeks ago, I spent some time with you and Dr. Francis Collins — excuse me — the Director of the National Institute of Health, at NIH, and gave me a tour of the Vaccine Research Center in Bethesda, Maryland. And it’s the place where our top scientists spend years researching and developing vaccines and treatments of all kinds of — for all kinds of viruses. The brilliant team there made possible the rapid deployment and development of COVID-19 vaccines, and they’re truly remarkable. And this administration will follow the science to deliver more breakthroughs. You now, we are doing that to beat COV- — COVID-19 and other diseases, like cancer — which is something that’s so personal to so many families, including me and Kamala’s and many of yours. We’ve asked Dr. Eric Lander, a renowned Harvard-MIT scientist, to serve as my science advisor and head of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and co-lead the President’s Cou- — the Presidential Council on Advisory Science and Technology. These are the White House offices that bring together the country’s top scientists to address our most pressing needs, and they’ll be part of the work to develop a DARPA-like advanced research effort on cancer and other diseases, just like we do DARPA in the Defense Department, which develops breakthrough projects to secure our national security. And relatedly, I’m delighted to see five of the nation’s leading cancer centers are joining forces today to build on the work of the Cancer Moonshot I was able to do during the Obama-Biden administration to help break through silos and barriers in cancer research. We’re making progress. There is so much we can do, so much progress within our reach. And that’s why I’m thankful to the folks here today for getting their vaccine shots: Gerald Bunn, who — and Corey Hamilton, both D.C. firefighters. I said to Corey, you know, that old expression, “God made man, and then he made a few firefighters.” Thank God we have them. And Linda — Linda Bussey is a manager at a Safeway grocery store in Bethesda. Victoria Legerwood Rivera, who is a local school counselor. And Elizabeth Galloway, who is a registered nurse who administered these shots. And the more people get vaccinated, the faster we’re going to beat this pandemic. That’s why one of my first goals in office when I — just before I was sworn in, I indicated that my goal was to get 100 million COVID-19 vaccine shots in people’s arms in my first 100 days as President. At first, critics said that goal was too ambitious; no one could do that. And then they said it was too small. But the bottom line, though, is that America will be the first country — perhaps the only one — to get that done. And today, I’m here to report we’re halfway there: 50 million shots in just 37 days since I’ve become President. That’s weeks ahead of schedule, even with the setbacks we faced during the recent winter storms, which devastated millions of Midwestern — Midwestern cities, towns, and also the same in the South. We’re moving in the right direction, though, despite the mess we inherited from the previous administration, which left us with no real plan to vaccinate all Americans. And every time we administer another 50 million shots, I’m going to use that milestone to report to the American people on our vaccination program and on our overall fight against this pandemic. The good and the bad, I’ll tell you; the success and the failures. And here’s the deal — here’s the deal: The story of this vaccination campaign is like the story of everything hard and new America does: some confusion and setbacks at the start, and then if we do the right things, we have the right plan to get things moving. That’s what we’re seeing right now. Weeks before I became President, the previous administration saw 6 million shots administered in the last week. This coming week, we will administer over 12 million shots, double the pace, in just six weeks that we’ve been in office. Other milestones: We’ve increased vaccination distribution to states by 70 percent. Nearly 60 percent of people over the age of 75 have now received at least one shot. It was 14 percent six weeks ago. And close to 50 percent of people over the age of 65 have at least one shot now. It was 8 percent six weeks ago. It’s important because people over 65 account for 80 percent of all the COVID deaths. Additionally, about 75 percent of the people who live in long-term facilities have gotten their first shot. And those cases are at the lowest level since reporting began in May. Here’s how we’ve been doing it: It starts with increasing the supply. My team has worked very hard with vaccine manufacturers, Pfizer and Moderna, to ensure we have enough supply for all adult Americans by the end of July. When we discovered the vaccine manufacturers weren’t being prioritized when it came to securing supplies they needed to make the vaccine, we fixed the problem. I used the Defense Production Act to speed up the supply chain for key equipment, which has already helped increase vaccine production. Last week, I toured the Pfizer facility — manufacturing facility in a plant in Kalamazoo, Michigan. It’s an incredible — it’s incredible the precision, the safety, the pride, and the sense of purpose everyone involved in that process and project has. We’ve all seen the news about Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine. The idea of a third safe and effective vaccine is very promising. The Food and Drug Administration, the FDA, is viewing the data and review recommendations from an outside committee of experts that will be meeting tomorrow. Now, let me be clear: We are going to do this the right way. The FDA will decide on an emergency use authorization of a vaccine based on science, not due to any political pressure from me or anyone else. No outside factors. What I will say to the American people is this: If — if the FDA approves the use of this new vaccine, we have a plan to roll it out as quickly as Johnson & Johnson can make it. We’ll use every conceivable way to expand manufacturing of the vaccine, and we’ll make even more rapid progress on overall vaccines in March. I’ll have more to say about this in the days after the FDA review. Look, we’ve been laser-focused on the greatest operational challenge this country has ever undertaken: administering shots in the arms of hundreds of millions of Americans. We’re increasing the number of vaccinators. What we found was, you may have the vaccine but not enough people put the vaccinate — vaccine in someone’s arm, like you just saw. We brought back retired doctors and nurses. We’ve already deployed more than 1,500 medical personnel you see during national disasters, from the Federal Emergency — the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA; and we commissioned — our Commissioned Corps from the Department of Health and Human Services; and the Defense Department, including the National Guard — supplying vaccinators. We’re lining up thousands more to do the vaccinations. We’re also setting up more places for people to get vaccinated. As of today, we provided $3.8 billion to states, territories, and tribes to create hundreds of new vaccination centers and ramp up the existing ones that are there already; working with governors across the country, in red and blue states, to bolster their efforts to stand up hundreds of vaccination centers — from stadiums, to community centers, houses of worship, large parking lots. We’re providing personnel and equipment, and covering the costs for the states, including for the use of their National Guard, which have been — they’re incredible. Today, Jill and I — or I should say, tomorrow, Jill and I will travel to Houston, Texas, to tour one of the first federal mass vaccination centers and to thank everyone involved. This is an example of the kind of partnership between federal, state, and local governments, and public and private partners, that’s going to get this job done. We also sent millions of vaccines to thousands of local pharmacies all across America to make it easier for folks to get the vaccine shot like they would their flu shot — going to a familiar place, familiar folks that they can trust and know to get the shot. And for folks who didn’t live near — don’t live near a vaccination center or a pharmacy, we’re deploying mobile units. These are special vehicles and pop-up clinics that meet folks where they live and where they don’t have transportation to get the shots — to get to the places to get the shots. We’ve also started to send vaccines directly to community health centers to help the hard — the hard-to-reach folks in cities and small towns, in rural communities; in black, Latino, Native American communities that have higher rates of COVID infections and deaths than any other groups. As a result of these round-the-clock efforts, in five weeks, America has administered the most shots of any country in the world — any country in the world — with among the highest percentage of population fully vaccinated. That’s progress we promised. And it’s also true that while COVID-19 vaccinations are up, COVID cases and hospitalizations are coming down. But I need to be honest with you: Cases and hospitalizations could go back up with new variants as they emerge. So I want to make something really very clear: This is not a time to relax. We must keep washing our hands, stay socially distanced, and for God’s sake — for God’s sake, wear a mask. Some of our progress in this fight is because so many Americans are stepping up and doing those things. And the worst thing we could do now is let our guard down. Of course, it’s my hope to come back in the next — next report that we’ve — after we’ve done another 50 million — another 50 million shots before the end of my first 100 days. But here’s the critical point. As hard as it is now to believe, we’re going to hit a phase in this effort, maybe as late as April or May, where many predict that instead of long lines of people waiting to get a shot, we’ll face a very different scenario: We’ll have the vaccine waiting. We’ll have ramped up vaccine supplies. We’ll have administrative — folks to administer the shots to the most of the people who aren’t eager to get the shots. At least that’s been the prediction. I don’t think — I think — I don’t think it’s going happen; I think the more people see other people getting the shots, it’s going to build confidence. But, you know, at the same time, there are people who live in hard-to-reach areas who can’t get them. And there are folks who are hesitant to take the shot in the first place. And we all know there’s a history in this country of subjecting certain communities to terrible medical and scientific abuse. But if there is one message that needs to cut through, it’s this: The vaccines are safe and effective. And I believe as you see your neighbor, your husband, your wife, your son, your daughter getting it, that you will be much more inclined to get it. Listen to Dr. Fauci. Listen to the scientists who developed these vaccines, and the extensive and rigorous review that it went through. I did. I took my shots publicly to demonstrate to the American people that it’s safe and effective. But the time is coming, maybe 60 to 90 days, when the supply is adequate but not enough people can access the shots or don’t want them. To address that challenge, we’re going to launch a massive campaign to educate people about vaccines: that they are safe and effective, and where to go to get those shots in the first place. And we’re going to bring together leaders of all segments of our society to educate and encourage all Americans to get vaccinated. So I hope the Senate will soon confirm a key leader of that effort, my nominee for the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra, who did so well in his hearing this week. And I hope Congress passes the American Rescue Plan, which I’ve been pushing, which provides funds for everything we need to do to beat this pandemic and to get the economy going again. Now, critics say the plan is too big, that it costs too much. But let me ask a rhetorical question: What would you have me cut? What would you have me cut out? On vaccines alone, if we don’t invest 20 million — billion dollars to vaccinate the nation — doesn’t that make sense? Or $160 billion in total towards the pandemic for testing, to protective gear, to vaccine production and distribution? I’m ready to hear any ideas on what will make the American Rescue Plan better, stronger, and effective. But we’ll have to answer who will get helped and who will get hurt. I want to close with this: The question I ask — I’m asked most often is, “When will things get back to normal?” My answer is always honest and straightforward. I can’t give you a date. I can only promise that we’ll work as hard as we can to make that day come as soon as possible. While things are improving, and we’re going from a mess we inherited to moving in the right direction, at significant speed, this is not a victory lap. This — everything is not fixed. We have a long way to go. And that day, when everything gets back to normal, depends on all of us. It depends on Congress passing the American Recovery Act — research plan — recovery plan. And also for us to remain vigilant, to look out for one another. I’ve said it before: Wash your hands. Stay socially distanced. Wear a mask. Get the vaccine when it’s your turn. When your friend or neighbor or loved one is eligible, encourage them to get vaccinated. And when all — above all, remember: We can do this. This is the United States of America. There is nothing we can’t do when we do it together. So it’s not over yet, but we’re getting close. And God willing, if we do all we know we have to do, we’re going to beat this; beat it sooner than later. And may God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you for your time. Good afternoon. The Vice President and I had a very productive meeting with a bipartisan group of senators and House members to address an issue of both concern to our economic security, as well as our national security: the resilience and reliability of our critical supply chains. This is a critical area where Republicans and Democrats agreed it was one of the best meetings — it’s the best meeting I think we’ve had so far, although we’ve only been here about five weeks. But it was like the old days — people actually are on the same page. There were — good, bipartisan work has already been done. The leaders of this operation in the House and Senate already did — have done great work, and I want to thank them for their leadership. We’re here to build on that. And the bottom line is simple: The American people should never face shortages in the goods and services they rely on, whether that’s their car or their prescription medicines or the food at the local grocery store. And remember, the shortages in PPE during this pandemic –that meant we didn’t have the masks; we didn’t have gowns or gloves to protect our frontline health workers. We heard horror stories of doctors and nurses wearing trash bags over their gown — over their dress in order to — so they wouldn’t be in trouble, because they had no gowns. And they were rewashing and reusing their masks over and over again in the OR. That should never have never happened. And this will never happen again in the United States, period. We shouldn’t have to rely on a foreign country — especially one that doesn’t share our interests or our values — in order to protect and provide our people during a national emergency. That’s why one of the first executive orders I signed, as some may remember, was to ensure that we’re manufacturing more protective equipment for healthcare workers here at home. And today, I’m shortly going to be signing another executive order that’ll help address the vulnerabilities in our supply chains across additional critical sectors of our economy so that the American people are prepared to withstand any crisis and rely on ourselves. This is about making sure the United States can meet every challenge we face in this new era — pandemics, but also in defense, cybersecurity, climate change, and so much more. And the best way to do that is by protecting and sharpening America’s competitive edge by investing here at home. As I’ve said from the beginning, while I was running: We’re going to invest in America. We’re going to invest in American workers. And then we can be in a much better position to even compete beyond what we’re doing now. Resilient, diverse, and secure supply chains are going to help revitalize our domestic manufacturing capacity and create good-paying jobs, not $15 an hour — which is what we need to do someday. And sooner is better, in my view. But jobs that are at the prevailing wage. We’re going to spare new — spur new opportunities for small businesses, communities of color, and economically distressed areas. And I will drive new investment in research and innovation and our workforce, investing in training and university partnerships that are going to lead to new technologies and new solutions. And all this won’t just strengthen our domestic capacity, it will help unleash new markets around the world and grow opportunities for American businesses to export their goods that we’re going to be making. These are the kinds of commonsense solutions that all Americans can get behind — workers and corporate leaders, Republicans and Democrats. It’s about resilience, identifying possible points of vulnerabilities in our supply chains, and making sure we have the backup alternatives or workarounds in place. Remember that old proverb: “For want of a nail, the shoe was lost. For want of a shoe, the horse was lost.” And it goes on and on until the kingdom was lost, all for the want of a horseshoe nail. Even small failures at one point in the supply chain can cause outside impacts further up the chain. Recently, we’ve seen how a shortage of computer chips — computer chips like the one I have here — you can hardly see it I imagine; it’s called a “semiconductor” — has caused delays in production of automobiles that has resulted in reduced hours for American workers. A 21st century horseshoe nail. This semiconductor is smaller than a postage stamp, but it has more than 8 billion transistors — 8 billion transistors, 10,000 times thinner than a single human hair in this one chip. These chips are a wonder of innovation and design that powers so much of our country, enables so much of our modern lives to go on — not just our cars, but our smartphones, televisions, radios, medical diagnostic equipment, and so much more. We need to make sure these supply chains are secure and reliable. I’m directing senior officials in my administration to work with industrial leaders to identify solutions to this semiconductor shortfall and work very hard with the House and Senate. They’ve authorized the bill, but they need $37 billion, short term, to make sure we have this capacity. We’ll push for that as well. But we all recognize that the particular problem won’t be solved immediately. In the meantime, we’re reaching out to our allies, semiconductor companies, and others in the supply chain to ramp up production to help us resolve the bottlenecks we face now. We need help to stop — we need to stop playing catch up after the supply-chain crisis hit. We need to prevent the supply chain crisis from hitting in the first place. And in some cases, building resilience will mean increasing our production of certain types of elements here at home. In others, it’ll mean working more closely with our trusted friends and partners, nations that share our values, so that our supply chains can’t be used against us as leverage. It will mean identifying and building surge capacity that can quickly be turned into and ramped up production in times of emergency. And it will mean investing in research and development, like we did in the ’60s, to ensure long-term competi- — competitiveness in our manufacturing base in the decades ahead. The order I’m about to sign does two things. First, it orders a 100-day review of four vital products: semiconductors — one; key minerals and materials, like rare earths, that are used to make everything from harder steel to airplanes; three, pharmaceuticals and their ingredients; four, advanced batteries, like the ones used in electric vehicles. There’s strong bipartisan support for fast reviews of these four areas because they’re essential to protecting and strengthening American competitiveness. Second, this order initiates a long-term review of the industry basis of six sectors of our overall economy over the next year. These reviews will identify policy recommendations to 40 of [fortify] our supply chains, to — it should be to fortify our supply chains at every step, and critically, to start implementing those recommendations right away. We’re not going to wait for a review to be completed before we start closing the existing gaps. And as we implement this work, my administration will draw on a full range of American talent — including labor and industry leaders, policy experts, scientists, farmers, engineers — to get their input. I’m grateful for the members of Congress who came to see me — Republican leaders, as well as Democrats. They’re leading the way. We’re going to stay in close contact with members of both sides of the aisle and keep advancing our shared goals. Everyone has a role to play to strengthen our supply chains in our — and our country. This is the United States of America. We are better prepared to meet the challenges of the 21st century than any country in the world. There’s nothing, nothing, nothing we’ve ever failed to achieve if we work together. And that’s what we decided to do today, and that’s what we’re going to do: work together. So I thank you all. I’m very optimistic about the meeting we had today with our congressional colleagues. And now I’m going to walk over and sign that executive order. Thank you all very much. I am, but I don’t so much blame it on the Senate; I blame it on the failure to have a transition that was rational. As you know, previous administrations had a significant number of their — their Cabinet confirmed before they even were sworn in. That’s the tradition. But we’re doing fine. I think we’re going to be in good shape. Thank you. I’m going to be talking to him. I have not spoken to him yet. Am I going to take what? I’m sorry. Yeah. Yes, I have. Thank you. Folks, we’re going to have a meeting today to talk about the critical supply chain — critical supply chain issues that we — that affect us all, affect this country. The last year has shown the vulnerability we have with some of the supply chains, including the PPE that we needed badly, but had to go abroad to get. And there are current strategies — and these little chips here for automobiles, I didn’t realize how many billions of chips are in here — but causing some lines to slow down and people not being laid off, but at least to shorten the shifts. And so we’re going to talk about that. John Cornyn and the bipartisan group here put together an effort last year that I think was a pretty good effort, dealing with how to deal with these chips, but there’s other aspects of shortages as well. That’s what we’re going to talk about. And it’s nice to have everybody down here, and — on a subject matter we all agree on, and figure out how we get it all done. So thank you all for coming on in, and I appreciate it. Good evening, everyone. Justin, we had good meetings. Prime Minister Trudeau and I just concluded a very productive bilateral meeting, the first of what I’m sure will be many close and cooperative sessions. One of our last foreign trips I made was — as Vice President was to visit the Prime Minister in Ottawa. And today, we were able to drive right into the many vital issues of importance for both our nations. For both our nations, getting COVID-19 under control at home and around the world is the immediate priority. And we committed to work together to help prevent future biological threats by strengthening the World Health Organization, supporting our bold targets under the Global Health Security Agenda, cooperating on the Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons [and Materials] of Mass Destruction, and engaging in — other multilateral institutions to promote transparency, build capacity, and strengthening global norms. We also agreed to work in close cooperation to strengthen the supply chain security and resilience, and to ensure that Canada and the United States are driving a robust economic recovery that benefits everyone, not just those at the top. That’s especially important because we know that this pandemic is not affecting everyone the same way. Women are dropping out of work — the workforce at alarming rates. Black, Latino, and Native are also — and other minority communities are particularly hard hit. And we also agreed to work together on a inclusive recovery, using the tools available to us through the Small and Medium Enterprise chapter of our trade agreement to support women- and minority-owned businesses. And we also doubled down on our efforts to tackle climate change. It was really, really encouraging. Now that the United States is back in the Paris Agreement, we intend to demonstrate our leadership in order to spur other countries to raise their own ambitions. Canada and the United States are going to work in lockstep to display the seriousness of our commitment at both home and abroad. To that end, we’re launching a high-level Climate Ambition Min- — Ambition Ministerial and to align our policies and our goals, and to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. Prime Minister Trudeau and I share an unwavering faith in the capacity of our peoples to meet the challenges of this new age if we lead with our core strengths: our democratic values, our diverse and dynamic peoples. We both recognize our responsibility, as leading democracies, to defend our shared values around the world and to strengthen our own democracies at home. That means rooting out systemic racism and unconscious bias from our institutions and our laws, as well as our hearts. Today, we agreed to re-establish the Cross-Border Crime Forum and work together to modernize our approach to community safety, and to do all — the most — the most we can — do more to take on racism and discrimination in both our systems. Canada and the United States are not only vital partners, we’re NATO Allies committed to shared defense. The Prime Minister and I discussed our work with our European allies to bolster transatlantic security, which includes meeting our Wales commitments. We also agreed to modernize the North American Aerospace Defense Command — NORAD — which is still the only bi-national military command of its kind. And we will launch an expanded U.S-Canadian Arctic dialogue to cover issues related to continental security, economic and social development, and Arctic governance. And finally, coming on the heels of the G7 meeting last Friday, it was an opportunity for Tr- — Prime Minister Trudeau and I to explore our bilateral partnership to reinforce and help drive issues of concern in our hemisphere and globally. That includes coordinating our approaches to better compete with China and to counter threats to our interest and values. Let me reiterate our support for the release of the detained Chinese — the detained in China, two Canadians: Michael Spavor and Michael Koving [sic] — Kovrig, excuse me. Human beings are not bartering chips. You know, we’re going to work together until we get their safe return. Canada and the United States will stand together against the abuse of universal rights and democratic freedoms. We’re going to strengthen our shared commitment to providing safe haven for refugees and asylum seekers, and so much more. The United States has no closer and no more important friend than Canada. Our nations share a close geography and history that will forever bind us together, but our values are even more consequential. It’s — but it’s the shared spirit of our people that’s going to ensure ours is the future of hope and opportunity. Canadians and Americans are innovative, creative, entrepreneurial, competitive, open-hearted, and rights-respecting. There’s nothing we cannot achieve when we commit ourselves to it. And when we work together, as the closest of friends should, we only make each other stronger. So thank you again, Mr. Prime Minister, for your friendship and for your leadership. And I look forward to when we’re able to meet in person and — and all that Canada and the United States are going to accomplish together. So, God bless you, and thanks for today. Thank you, Justin. Au revoir. Mr. Prime Minister, it’s good to see you. And I wish I could reciprocate the hospitality you gave me when I visited Ottawa as Vice President in 2016. The sooner we get this pandemic under control, the better. And I look forward to seeing you in person in the future. As you know, to state the obvious — we had a private talk about this a little while ago — the United States has no closer friend — no closer friend than Canada. That’s why you were my first call as President, my first bilateral meeting. And, of course, my Vice President spent some time living up in Montreal for high school. And so our channel of communication is — are wide open. As you know, we have a robust agenda today. And — and we’re all best served when the United States and Canada work together and lead together in close coordination on a full range of issues we’re going to discuss: COVID-19, economic recovery, climate change, refugees and migration, fighting for our democratic values on a global stage, and — and strengthening our own democracies at home. We spoke about this at the G7, but it’s worth saying again: I believe the leaders of the major democracies, we have — as leaders of the major democracies, we have a responsibility to prove that democracy can still deliver for our people. There are a lot of leaders around the world who are trying to make the argument autocracy works better. Empowering the full participation of our people, expanding opportunity and equity for everybody, ensuring the benefits of growth are shared broadly: that’s how we’re going to win the battle for the future. So thank you again, Mr. Prime Minister, for your partnership and your enduring commitment to the U.S-China relation- — U.S.-Canadian relationship. We’re going to talk about China. And I’m looking forward to a very productive discussion. The floor is yours, Mr. Prime Minister. Well, before we go on, I want to make sure you know Anthony Blinken, our Secretary of State, sitting here. And the fellow down here on the right hand side is a guy named Jake Sullivan, and he’s the National Security Advisor. And the National Security Council Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, Juan Gonzalez, who usually speaks Spanish to me, which I have trouble with as well. I told you, Mr. Prime Minister, I took five years of French in school and college, as well. And when I — every time I tried to speak it, I’d make such a fool of myself, I stopped trying. At least when I try Spanish and I make a fool of myself, they laugh with me. At any rate, thank you very much. And the press is about to leave the room here, and we can get to business. To me, he’s “Mr. President.” Well, thanks for joining us, everyone. I — you know, I know I’ve met Al before. And, Al, thank you for all the help in the past, and we’re going to try to help, now, you and the firefighters and the EMTs. And — and, Melanie, I understand you’re the — what? — second- or third-generation pharmacist in your family? Is that right? Well, that’s pretty impressive. That’s pretty impressive. And, Carmen, you — you do God’s work. You’re dealing with all those little kids and trying to figure out how you do it now and how you can safely open and how you can make it work. Well, I tell you what: We need you badly. And, Jeff, you have too damn many Hy-Vees around the state. I mean, I tell you what — you know, I — it was always a debate whether I stop at a Hy-Vee or whether I find a frozen custard stand. But, you know, that’s what we did in Iowa. But all kidding aside, you all are — you — you’re basically holding the country together. I’m not being facetious; I’m being deadly earnest. You can see the looks on people’s faces when they walk into your drugstore and they stand at the counter and they ask for a prescription, can’t you? You can see the fear in their eyes, especially if they’ve gotten a — an unwelcome analysis, like two of your family members have, Al. And so what I want to do today is I want you to know — there’s that old bad joke, “I’m from the federal government; I’m here to help.” But we are from the federal government, and we want to help. We want to help a lot. There hasn’t been — most states — you’re from four different states, and you’re — we got St. Louis, Chicago, Columbus, and Cedar Rapids. And so — and every state, as you know, has a slightly different approach to how to deal with COVID right now. And we’re trying to make sure they get all that they need, each of those states. And we’re focusing, as the — as the former Ambassador said, that we’re focusing on the — on the needs, particularly of the most left-behind community: the African American community. I mean, it really is across the board, but on this area specifically, as, I might add, are the Latino communities being left behind — not as much, but similarly — and Pacific Islanders. So there’s a lot of work to do, and that’s why we want to talk to you to see whether we’re headed in the right direction. So I’m eager to hear what’s on their mind, Susan, and see what you’re thinking — what you think we should be doing. And now I know the guy from Iowa, Jeff, he’ll ask any questions, because Iowans are so spoiled; they can ask every presidential candidate. “Come on. Can you come over here and sit down with me for a few minutes? I want to talk to you.” Right, Jeff? So, you know — I mean, so — but all kidding aside, I’m anxious to hear what’s on your mind, what you think we should be doing, and then maybe, in the process, ask a few questions and tell you the kinds of things we’re doing to try to deal with what are, we think — I hope — are the problems of the people who are keeping us floating. You’re the ones that keep us going. Not a joke. You are the ones that keep us going and kept the country going. You’re carrying it on your back. And so thank you for what you’ve done so far. And we got a lot more to do. Before you start, you heard — you heard that old expression: “God made man, and then he made a few firefighters.” Good to see you. Al, let me ask you: If you had to identify the one thing — you could wave a wand — the one thing that could help your women and men and the fire- — firefighters and EMTs, what do you need the most? Well, that’s what we do in this legislation we put together. And I hope to God it’s going to pass. We provide for resources — $350 billion for emergency funding for state, local, and territorial governments. Now, we got 340 million people in America. We got a big country. And — and so what’s happened is a lot of states have decided that they — because they have to balance their budgets — they can’t — they can’t continue to spend the same amount of revenue they were spending before. And what’s happening is a lot of — everything from firefighters to school teachers to a whole range of people are being laid off. We’re short 6,000 teachers, firefighters. And the only thing I know — working with your outfit, Al, for so long — is that the only thing keeps firefighters safe is more firefighters. Literally. Literally. And — and so, you’re being cut. We also find — provide for $160 billion for supplies. And that would be everything from, you know, making sure we can scale vaccine distribution and testing, make sure everybody can get in there and have an opportunity to get the test to EMTs and firefighters. When we get that done, we’re going to have one less crisis you have to deal with. But, look, the funds we’re talking about are designed to keep teachers and school workers on the job, including — including childcare; invest in personal protective equipment. I understand, from the story I was told, that you have the personal protective equipment in St. Louis but they don’t have it in Kansas City — of the firefighters. And also to reduce, you know, any — just increase capacity across the board. So, you know, we owe you a lot. My family owes you a particularly lot. You literally — as you know, when we talked, you saved my life. The EMTs in my state saved my life. Got me down to a hospital in time to save my life. And — and my boys; you saved their lives too, with the Jaws of Life much earlier. So we owe you big. But what I want to do is make sure you — I get more specific with you and find out that — you know, whether or not you have access to get in line. Last thing: States set the priorities for who gets the vaccine. We have now gone from having a shortage of vaccines to, by the end of July, we’ll have over 600 million doses of vaccine, enough to take care of everybody in the country. And we’re moving as the — as Ms. Owens knows, we’re moving to make sure that drugstores, pharmacies are going to be able to be a place — just like for flu shots — you can go. We’ve just gone from — because we find that that’s more accessible to an awful lot of folks who are — don’t have the means to travel very far, don’t have the access to get to where they need to go. And they’re used to their pharmacy and they know their pharmacist, and they can get a shot. And we’ve gone from this week — last week, 1 million doses to pharmacies to 2 million this week. So, with the grace of God and the goodwill of neighbors, we’re going to be able to significantly increase that. And, Carmen, I’m pushing really hard for — I mean this sincerely — for daycares to be able to open, and you need financial help to open. You can’t just open just straight up. And — but we’ll talk about that a little bit as we go on. I don’t want to take too much time at the frontend here. So, look, Al, just — you know, don’t be shy about letting us know what you need. And what you need in Missouri is not fundamentally different than what people need in Kansas and people need in Iowa and people need in Illinois, et cetera. So we ought to talk some more. Okay? You have, man. As one of your guys said, “You have my back so much, you’re breaking my shoulders,” pushing me. Anyway, thank you, Al. Well, thank you, Melanie. Look, let me — let me ask you a couple questions. You’re in the South Side of Chicago; that’s where my kids’ grandparents are from. And they’re — and, you know, people are — you know, they don’t have a whole lot of money. And a lot of people don’t — and it’s an older population these days. And one of the things that I’ve observed is that there is a reluctance to — if they don’t know how to get online with you — a lot of people don’t know how to use that — they may not have a cell phone; they may not have the ability to know how to pick the phone up and get online. They just — and — and so, they’re reluctant. And what I found is — from the days when my dad was raising me — that sometimes people, when they don’t know what to do, they’re embarrassed to acknowledge they don’t know how to do it. They don’t know how to get it done. So, how — how important do you think it is — what — and one more piece of this. We also know, because of the way American medicine has taken advantage of African Americans for experimentation over the last 100 years, that there’s a real — a real reluctance that still exists in the African American community to get the vaccination, even if it’s available. And my — I’ve been pleading with people, “Get it.” If you have a chance, get it. It will save not only your life potentially, but it’ll save your family a little bit. So tell me about what you’ve sensed. I can tell you have a feel for this. Tell me — no, I really mean it. Tell me what you sense from your patients who come in to get the shot. Is it — I don’t think they’re afraid of a needle. It’s not like, “Oh, a needle.” But are they reluctant to say — to deal with it? Or is it because you’re an African American woman they respect, does that make it easier for them to be able to take the — Well, we’ve been able to increase the supply to the states, in just in the month we’ve been here, by 57 percent. So they’re getting 57 percent more vaccine than they did before. And we’re going to — God willing, we’re going to be in a position where we can significantly increase that as well. So that — and the other thing is, we have set up — and we made another federal decision, saying that we were going to use community health facilities, which usually take care of the folks who are the most in need, and because they know where — I’m not being facetious when I say this — they know where the people sleeping under the bridge are. They know where people who are really in real dire straits, who they — they’re going out to get them, to get them vaccinated. And so we’re hoping that this helps. In addition, you know, one of the things we’re going to be able to do is: Part of this investment is $20 billion in the National Vaccination Program. As you know, the funding helps deploy community vaccinators and vaccination centers. You’re one of them. You’re in the community. That’s why — but some of the governors were not sure that’s the way to go, that we — and I’m not picking on any governor. I really mean it. They didn’t understand why we made the independent decision to send vaccine directly to 600-and-some — or 600 — 67 different drug chains or drugstores out there — why we send it directly to them. And they weren’t sure why we were sending directly to childcare facilities. That’s what we’re going to try to do now. And so — because they thought they could better decide where to use it. But I am determined to make sure we service the communities that are the ones that are the most victimized by — “victimized” is the wrong word — most affected by — most affected by the COVID virus when they get it and the consequences of it. But I thank you for — for all you do, and I really mean it, and for going to those — into those — those long-term care facilities and helping there as well. So thank you very much. That’s what I read. You obviously have a lot of spare time, Carmen. Well, Carmen, look, you know, we — this legislation, which we think is going to pass, is going to help childcare providers by allowing you to pay the rent; pay your utilities; your payroll, if there is one beyond you — as a loan; as well as increased costs associated with the pandemic. And those costs include PPE; you mentioned ventilation — paying for ventilation improvement; small group sizes; modifications to make the physical environment inside safer by providing more dividers. We’re also temporarily going to increase the Child Care Tax Credit. Right now, if you make over a certain amount of money, you will get a tax credit of 2,000 bucks now. We’re going to raise that to $3,000 per child, and $3,600 for a child under the age of six, and make it refundable, which is the big deal. Because if you’re not making a lot of money and not paying taxes — you may have two or three kids — you don’t get any help at all. But now what will happen is, if this passes, they will get a refundable credit for each child, if they’re under six — a $3,600 check from the federal government. And — and the same thing for the $2,000, and so on. So they say we’ll cut — if we get this done, it will cut child poverty in half. But in addition to that, it will provide those parents with access to not only your daycare center, but others across the country to be able to afford it. And we’re also making sure that we provide money for folks who are about to be thrown out of their homes, or, you know, there’s millions of people out there who can’t — can’t pay the rent. And so we’ve deferred any cost to have to pay the rent while this pandemic is going on, because otherwise you just have — we’d be vastly increasing the homeless population, which makes no sense. And so, you know, we know how — how important early childhood education and child development is. And to get through this crisis, I think we need to be sure childcare providers have the funding they need to stay afloat. And you mentioned something, Carmen, that is really important. You know, the — most of these kids you’ve been taking care of, if they were going to kindergarten or preschool, they’d be getting a free lunch program. Well, you know — well, we got to increase the amount of money available for what used to be called the “food stamp program,” but it’s not now. And — but we got to make more — make it available. Because did you ever think you’d see in your — in your hometown where you’d see miles of cars lined up in multiple lanes, waiting for one box of food? This is United States of America, for God’s sake. And the idea there is that much food insecurity is — is just not right. So what — I believe if we get this bill passed — which we’re not going to pass by a lot, but we’re — we’re optimistic we’re going to make some real changes. And the childcare centers are at risk of closing all around the country. And what impact would it have — and last question I’ll ask — if you had to shut down? What do you think it would do to the children and the parents that you — that now are your clients? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, kiddo, keep doing what you’re doing. You’re — You’re really — as my mom would say, you’re doing God’s work, kid. Are you able to take them to the daycare for the hybrid school? Well, an awful lot of children, as well as adults, are going through some real — they need some help in terms of depression and mental problem. I mean, you know, they’re just — we’re worried about their — they’re just so off. They don’t know exactly what’s going on, and it has real impacts. And that’s why we got to get them back into school; that’s why we have to open up these schools. And, by the way, the other — a lot of you out there are struggling just to make ends meet even if you have a job, and — but we’re going to make sure you get that extra $1,400 check during the pandemic that both parties had said they support it. Even the past President said he strongly supported it. We just got to get it done now. But it’ll make a difference and give you some — just, literally, some breathing room just to be able to — just — just a little breathing room. That’s what we need to give people right now. Because everybody in this shot, in this pro- — in this circumstance that is being hurt, it’s through no fault of their own. It’s not their fault that the pandemic started. Well, thank you. I know. I was teasing you. That’s amazing. Well, Jeff, it’s an honor for the Ambassador and I to be — I mean, to be able to talk you. Look, one of the things that the Ambassador and I made the decision early on, to quote Franklin Roosevelt, I’m going to give it to you “straight from the shoulder.” I’m not going to play games. I’ll tell you when we do it right, and I’ll tell you when we screwed up, and tell you we’ll take responsibility. That’s what I think all of you are doing. You’re giving this straight to the people you’re working with and to the people you’re trying to help. And we spent much too much time ignoring this. One of the things you’ve all mentioned is the PPE — the protective gear — and social distancing. And I know that that Melanie knows this, as a pharmacist, and all of you know it from your experience, that the way — we can save — we could have saved literally an awful lot of lives if people had listened. We turned wearing masks into a political statement — if you were for this thing, you’d wear it; if you’re for somebody else, you didn’t wear it — when, in fact, it’s just plain, basic science — science. Social distancing, so you’re not coughing on one another — the particles. The ventilation you talked about, Carmen, makes a difference in community centers and the like. And so there’s so many things that we can do that are just within our own power. We’re probably going to be sending out an awful lot of masks around the country, very shortly — millions of them. But the point is that you — you all, interesting, without my asking you, talked about the need to social distance. It’s kind of hard to social distance in a firetruck. It’s kind of hard to social distance in a — with an EMT in the back of a wagon. But you all know it’s important. And — and so I hope you’ll cont- — I had said, when I got elected, that in my first 100 days, I’d guarantee people we’d get at least 100 million shots in people’s arms — 100 million shots in people’s arms. And 30 days in, we’re about 40 percent of the way there. And what are we at? Forty-seven — Almost 50 million right now. And we said we’re going to do a million shots a day. One of the things that you and Melanie know is that we had to get vaccinators. It’s one thing to get a vaccine delivered; it’s another thing to get it out of that vial, into a needle, and into somebody’s arm. And so we worked very hard. We’ve probably gotten another — close to 4,000 people who give vaccinations, from National Guard, to the Defense Department, to others, and to — and to units within commercial operations that can have people who can do the vaccination. I’ve signed an executive order allowing former retired doctors and nurses to be able to come back and give vaccinations. And so we’re going to beat this thing because of folks like you. And to the extent you can continue to have your constituencies — and they’re all different — is to make sure that they understand that social distancing matters, washing your hands matters, and the whole idea. And I don’t have to tell you that, Al. You know, you had two kids affected, right? Well, thank God. So, but one of the things that — you know, again, I’m going to go back to the whole question of equity. What we’re trying to do — my team and I — is get people who in fact have been most hurt by this pandemic to places where they are comfortable, where they have comfort in going. They don’t feel like they are — they’re not intimidated by the circumstance. And they’re usually — they’re used to going to the grocery store. They’re used to going to their — to their drugstore or pharmacy. They’re used to doing those things. But we also are trying to get out mobile units into communities — not only inner city, but rural communities that don’t have as much access. You know, I guess, they tell me the statistic is that the vast majority of the American people live within five miles of a pharmacy. Well, the point is that that may be case, but if you’re an older person living by yourself, you don’t have a vehicle, and there’s no public transportation, it’s a little hard to get to that pharmacy. So we’re working out ways now to provide mobile transportation — literally vans going into communities — and people, you know, getting shots that are being administered by people who people tend to trust. So, I’m glad — I can’t tell you how much difference you’re making. We’ve met with people all over the country via this means. And I think there’s a growing awareness that, you know, injecting bleach into your system doesn’t do it for you. And I’m being seri- — I mean, think about it: all the ridiculous things. And there is online still — there are those who are the — you know, the vaccine — — deniers, and telling all these stories about what — that aren’t true. So, I really appreciate you and your colleagues across the country who are continuing to push and say, “No. If you can get a vaccine get it. And if you can get it, get it as quickly as you can. Socially distance.” We’re now doing a study. The — the COVID team, they’re studying whether or not once you’ve had the vaccine and you’ve had it for the better part of several weeks — the last shot what can you do and not do, in terms of being sure that you are safe? Do you still wear a mask? Do you still socially distance, et cetera? And so it’s all — we’re an administration that thinks science matters. Science matters, and it has to be available to the poorest among us and those who are most hurt by this COVID crisis across the board. And that’s what we’re doing. Do you have any questions for me? Seriously, you can ask me anything you’d like. I can tell Carmen has a good question. I don’t know. She’s not sure. “Should I really ask him that?” I don’t know. You can ask me anything you want. I’m just Joe, okay? So, fire away. Do you have a question? Well, I’m going to be back in Columbus. I was in Columbus — actually, now it’s about literally 35 days or so ago. I came through in a whistle stop, in a train, when I was trying to get the nomination, when I was trying to win the election. But I like Columbus. And I’m a Democrat, but I think your — I think your governor is doing a pretty decent job of trying to get things going. I’m — I — you know, I don’t think there’s anything political about this. Some folks are just stepping up, and he’s stepped up in my — my impression. We disagree on things. We used to serve together. I like him. But it’s not a — I just think this is about — it’s about the science. But when I come back, you know, if you see me, you better not say, “Joe, who?” Okay? “Who is that guy? Joe, who? What was that guy’s name?” Well, I’ll you what, I’d like — I hope I can be — get to the point where that’s happened. Now, the one thing I get most asked is when it’s going to go back to normal. The honest to God truth is, I can’t tell you that. But most experts tell you that things are going to be — continue to change and change somewhat rapidly. I think you’re going to see that, next fall, it’s going to be different than last fall. I think you’re going to see that we’re going to be going into the Christmas season better than we were. Whether it’s back to complete normal, I don’t know. But we’re going to beat this. I promise you we are going to, together, beat this. And — and I think that, I — you know, but the idea that over 500- — I think it’s — I have a card. I carry a card with me every day with the total number of folks who have been affected by the — as of yesterday, there are 500,071 people who have died from this — 500. That’s more people that died in World War One, World War Two, and Vietnam combined, in a year — in a year. But, look, when the American people set their minds to something, there’s nothing — nothing we’ve been unable to do if we do it together. So with your help — and there’s so darn many — you know, we — look — look at all the stuff that’s, I don’t know, bad or disappointing out there, but there’s so darn many good, decent, honorable people in this country, and they want to get it done right. And so, in the meantime, make me one promise: You all take care of yourselves. We need you, for real. We need you, for real, okay? And you have the number. You can call us anytime. I really mean it. Not a joke. Yeah, I know. Believe me. She knows how to find me. “Joe, where are you? Come here.” Well, we used to be “Joe.” Still — “Joe” is still good. All right, thank you. Appreciate it. Each day, I receive a small card in my pocket that I carry with me in my schedule. It shows the number of Americans who have been infected by or died from COVID-19. Today, we mark a truly grim, heartbreaking milestone: 500,071 dead. That’s more Americans who have died in one year in this pandemic than in World War One, World War Two, and the Vietnam War combined. That’s more lives lost to this virus than any other nation on Earth. But as we acknowledge the scale of this mass death in America, we remember each person and the life they lived. They’re people we knew. They’re people we feel like we knew. Read the obituaries and remembrances. The son who called his mom every night just to check in. The father’s daughter who lit up his world. The best friend who was always there. The nurse — the nurse and nurses — but the nurse who made her patients want to live. I was in — just in Kalamazoo, Michigan, at the Pfizer vaccine manufacturing facility. There, I met a man when I walked in, whose father-in-law was dying of the virus. He was sad. I asked if I could call his father-in-law. He said his father-in-law was too sick to speak. But then he said, but could I pray for him — could I pray for him. We all know someone — fellow Americans who lived lives of struggle, of purpose, and of hope. Who talked late into the night about their dreams; who wore the uniform, born to serve; who loved, prayed, and always offered a hand. We often hear people described as “ordinary Americans.” There’s no such thing; there’s nothing ordinary about them. The people we lost were extraordinary. They spanned generations. Born in America. Immigrated to America. But just like that, so many of them took final breath alone in America. As a nation, we can’t accept such a cruel fate. While we have been fighting this pandemic for so long, we have to resist becoming numb to the sorrow. We have to resist viewing each life as a sta- — as a statistic or a blur or on the news. And we must do so to honor the dead, but equally important, care for the living and those left behind. For the loved ones left behind, I know all too well — I know what it’s like to not be there when it happens. I know what it’s like when you are there, holding their hands. There’s a look in your eye, and they slip away. That black hole in your chest, you feel like you’re being sucked into it. The survivor’s remorse. The anger. The questions of faith in your soul. For some of you, it’s been a year, a month, a week, a day, even an hour. And I know that when you stare at that empty chair around the kitchen table, it brings it all back, no matter how long ago it happened, as if it just happened that moment you looked at that empty chair. The birthdays, the anniversaries, the holidays without them. And the everyday things — the small things, the tiny things — that you miss the most. That scent when you open the closet. That park you go by that you used to stroll in. That movie theater where you met. The morning coffee you shared together. The bend in his smile. The perfect pitch to her laugh. I received a letter from a daughter whose father died of COVID-19 on Easter Sunday last year. She and her children — his grandchildren — enter Lent this season, a season of reflection and renewal, with heavy hearts. Unable to properly mourn, she asked me in the letter, “What was our loss among so many others?” Well, that’s what has been so cruel. So many of the rituals that help us cope, that help us honor those we loved, haven’t been available to us. The final rites with family gathered around. The proper homegoing, showered with stories and love. Tribal leaders passing [with]out the final traditions of sacred cultures on sacred lands. As a nation, we cannot and we must not let this go on. That’s why the day before my inauguration, at the COVID-19 Memorial at the Reflecting Pool on the National Mall, I said to heal — to heal, we must remember. I know it’s hard. I promise you, I know it’s hard — I remember. But that’s how you heal: You have to remember. And it’s also important to do that as a nation. For those who have lost loved ones, this is what I know: They’re never truly gone. They’ll always be part of your heart. I know this, as well — and it seems unbelievable, but I promise you: The day will come when the memory of the loved one you lost will bring a smile to your lips before a tear to your eye. It will come. I promise you. My prayer for you though is that day will come sooner rather than later. And that’s when you know you’re going to be okay — you’re going to be okay. And for me, the way through sorrow and grief is to find purpose. I don’t know how many of you have lost someone a while ago and are wondering, “Is he or she proud of me now? Is this what they want me to do?” I know that’s how I feel. And we can find purpose — purpose worthy of the lives they lived and worthy of the country we love. So today, I ask all Americans to remember: Remember those we lost and those who are left behind. But as we remember — as we all remember, I also ask us to act. To remain vigilant, to sa- — stay socially distanced, to mask up, get vaccinated when it’s your turn. We must end the politics and misinformation that has divided families, communities, and the country, and has cost too many lives already. It’s not Democrats and Republicans who are dying from the virus. It’s our fellow Americans. It’s our neighbors and our friends — our mothers, our fathers, our sons, our daughters, husbands, wives. We have to fight this together, as one people, as the United States of America. That’s the only way we’re going to beat this virus, I promise you. The only way to spare more pain and more loss — the only way these millstones [sic] no longer mark our national mourning — these milestones, I should say — no longer mark our national mourning. Let this not be a story of how far we fell, but of how far we climbed back up. We can do this. For in this year of profound loss, we have seen profound courage from all of you on the frontlines. I know the stress, the trauma, the grief you carry. But you give us hope. You keep us going. You remind us that we do take care of our own. That we leave nobody behind. And that while we have been humbled, we have never given up. We are America. We can and will do this. In just a few minutes, Jill and I, Kamala and Doug, will hold a moment of silence here in the White House — the People’s House, your house. We ask you to join us to remember, so we can heal; to find purpose in the work ahead; to show that there is light in the darkness. This nation will smile again. This nation will know sunny days again. This nation will know joy again. And as we do, we will remember each person we’ve lost, the lives they lived, the loved ones they left behind. We will get through this, I promise you. But my heart aches for you — those of you who are going through it right now. May God bless you all, particularly those who have lost someone. God bless you. Good afternoon. I just had an opportunity to catch up with two small-business owners I met on the road in the last couple weeks. And the first was a very entrepreneurial woman named Pilar Guzman Zavala, and she’s in Florida, Miami. And Tim Eichinger, who is in Wisconsin. They have different businesses and live in different places, but both shared the same message with me when I spoke to them on the road, and that was American small businesses are hurting and hurting badly, and they need help now. And it’s in all of our interests to make sure they get the help now. Small businesses are the engines of our economic progress; they’re the glue and the heart and soul of our communities. But they’re getting crushed. Since the beginning of this pandemic, 400,000 small businesses have closed — 400,000 — and millions more are hanging by a thread. It’s hurting black, Latino, and Asian American communities the hardest. Walk down any Main Street and you see it: empty storefronts, goodbye signs hanging in the windows. Maybe it’s the pizza place you used to take your family to dinner, or the hardware store that always had the tool you needed. It’s mom-and-pop shop that’s sponsored by — that is supported by the community, and then, in turn, they support the community. They sponsor a Little League team; the barber shop with the first dollar bill that he or she earned is still taped to the wall, along with a picture of the kids who are now in college. These small businesses — not the ones with 500 employees, but these small businesses that, with a handful of folks, they are 90 percent of the businesses in America. But when the Paycheck Protection Program was passed, a lot of these mom-and-pop business just got muscled out of the way by bigger companies who jumped in front of the line. And I want to be clear: The Paycheck Protection Program is a bipartisan effort; Democrats and Republicans helped pass it. But Democrats and Republicans have also voiced concerns about improving it. With their input, that’s what we’re doing in our administration: improving it. In the last month, we’ve increased the share of funding for small businesses with fewer than 10 employees by nearly 60 percent. For businesses in rural communities, the share of funding is up nearly 30 percent since we came to office. And the share of funding distributed through banks that traditionally help minority-owned businesses is up more than 40 percent. And today, I’m announcing additional changes to the PPP program that will make sure we look out for the mom-and-pop business even more than we already have. As I explained to Pilar and Tim — the two small-business people I spoke to on Wednesday — the Small Business Administration is going to establish a 14-day exclusive PPP loan application period for businesses and nonprofits with fewer than 20 employees. People can — can go out and find how to get a hold of these — these loans. People can find out more at the SBA.gov. The Small Business Administration will also remove barriers that have stopped many businesses from being able to apply for these loans. For example, we’re making it so that a student loan default or a non-fraud-related criminal record does not prohibit someone from applying for the program. We’re also making it easy for those one-person businesses — like the home repair contractors; beauticians; small, independent retailers — to secure forgivable PPP loans. At the same time, we’re increasing access by increasing oversight. I invite any inspector general in this program, with jurisdiction over this program, to closely look at these loans and report — publicly report on any issues they uncover inconsistent with what I’m saying today. We will ensure every dollar is spent well. These changes will bring much-needed, long-overdue to — help to small businesses who really need help staying open, maintaining jobs and making ends meet. And this is a starting point, not the ending point. We need Congress to pass my American Rescue Plan. It deals with the immediate crisis facing our small businesses. Now, critics say the plan is too big. Let me ask them a rhetorical question: What would you have me cut? What would you leave out? The American Rescue Plan targets $50 billion to support the hardest-hit small businesses after this program expires at the end of March. Would you not help invest in them? Would you let them continue to go under? Would you leave them out again, like the previous administration did? One of the things I’ve heard again and again from small-business owners like Pilar and Tim is that knowing about support is one thing; being — gaining access to getting it is another. That’s why we proposed $175 million to bring community organizations in to serve as “navigators” who’ll help them through this process of application. We would also establish a hotline, with help available in multiple languages, so folks can pick up a phone and get the help they need to stay open and serve their community. Again, the critics: “It’s too big.” Should we not — should we stop spending money on them? Do we not want a return on investment that we make in these businesses to be able to stay open and thrive and pay back? Why would we not want to make sure a small business, who lack teams of lawyers, bankers, and accountants, have an advocate — someone they can rely on — to direct them to help that’s there for them now — will be there for them? The American Rescue Plan is a rescue plan for America’s small businesses and America’s mainstream businesses. And we need Congress to pass it right away. I’m grateful to the Senate and the House for moving so quickly. And I want to make it clear: I’m prepared to hear ideas about how to make the American Rescue Plan better and cheaper. But we have to make clear who we’re helping and who it would hurt. I always try to help people like Tim and Pilar and all the country’s small businesses, and families, the workers, the communities that depend on them to survive, recover, and grow. And it’s my hope — my hope that as Democrats and Republicans, who have backed the PPP program — that Democrats and Republicans will back the American Rescue Plan. The vast majority of the American people — more than 70 percent of the American people, including a majority of Republicans — want us to act based on all the polling data, and act big and act quickly. Major economists — left, right, and center — here and abroad say we should focus on smart investments that can make jobs available and focus on the jobs and in the people to prevent lo- — prevent long-term economic damage to our nation and to strengthen the economic competitiveness going forward. In fact, an analysis by Wall Street’s firm, Moody’s, estimates that if we pass my American Rescue Plan, the economy will create 7 million jobs this year. This year. We’ve also been in constant contact with the mayors and governors, county officials, members of Congress of both parties in every state. That includes a letter, I might add, from more than 400 mayors from big and small cities, Democrat and Republican. They agree we have to act and act now. They understand we’re not going to get our economy back in shape and the millions of people back to work until we beat this virus. Getting our economy back means bringing our small businesses back. And that’s what we’re going to do. That’s what I’m doing today. We’re going to focus. The program ends at the end of March, but for the next two weeks, the only folks who can apply for that PPP money are businesses with fewer than 20 employees. Thank you very much. Albert, thank you very much. Thank you not only for what you do for the — the credit you give me that I really don’t deserve. This is — this is a case of life and death. We’re talking about people’s lives. I want you to know that once we beat COVID, we’re going to do everything we can to end cancer as we know it. I’ve asked Dr. Eric Lander, a renowned Harvard/MIT scientist, to co-lead the Presidential Council of Advisors in Science and Technology, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy. These are the White House offices that bring together the country’s top scientists and address our most pressing needs. They’ll be part of the administration’s work to develop a DARPA-like advanced research effort on cancer and other diseases, just like there is DARPA in the Defense Department that develops the breakthroughs to protect our country. This administration is going to be guided by science — to save lives and to make lives better. And that’s why I wanted to come here, Albert, to thank you and to thank all the workers here in Kalamazoo. And I’m here to thank my good friend, Governor Whitmer, and she has become a good and close friend. The Governor have been on the frontlines of this pandemic, as well, for a long time, and I think she’s doing an incredible job in a very difficult circumstances. And Michigan is also fortunate to have my buddy Gary Peters as United States senator, and Debbie Stabenow. Gary is here. Gary has been a workhorse in making sure that we move through this funding to get things done, because he understands better than anyone: It’s about urgency — the urgency of the moment. So, Gary — thank you, Senator. Thank you for all you’re doing. Last week, I toured the Vaccine Research Center at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. I met world-class doctors, scientists, and researchers who were critical for discovering the vaccines in record time. I remember when we first started talking about this, asking Dr. Fauci and others. They said, “Well, it could take up to several years, maybe as many as six or eight years, to find — find a vaccine.” It’s a miracle of science and the brilliant minds that we have around us. And now it’s a second miracle — a miracle of manufacturing — to produce hundreds of millions of doses. Let me say that again: hundreds of millions of doses. I came here because I want the American people to understand the extraordinary — extraordinary work that’s being done to undertake the most difficult operational challenge this nation has ever faced. And let me say parenthetically that it’s not enough that we find cures for Americans. There needs to be cures that the world is able to take part of, because you can’t build a wall or a fence high enough to keep a pandemic out. On our tour, I met a few of your nearly 3,000 workers, Albert: experts managing ingredients that come in from different cities and states; experts handling 3D modeling and artificial intelligence to ensure that every dose is properly crafted; experts ensuring an environ- — a sterile environment so that each vial — each and every one — is safe and free of contaminants. All of this is followed by extensive safety and quality control inspection, then careful packaging and labeling. We walked by a freezer farm that then keeps those doses viable so they can be shipped. This is an incredibly complex process. And at every stop, safety is the utmost priority. The whole process takes teamwork, precision, and around-the-clock focus. Machinists operating some of the most advanced equipment in the world, working side by side with chemists, biologists, pioneering technologies that, less than a year ago, were little more than theories and aspirations. And it takes a partnership, in our view, between the federal government and all of the companies and universities contributing to the vaccine effort. Just over four weeks ago, America had no real plan to vaccinate most of the country. My predecessor — as my mother would say, “God love him” — failed to order enough vaccines, failed to mobilize the effort to administer the shots, failed to set up vaccine centers. That changed the moment we took office. I directed Jeff Zients, my COVID-19 Response Coordinator, to lead my administration’s work with the vaccine manufacturers to buy more vaccines and to speed up delivery. Albert referenced it earlier, and I want to thank him for making it happen. Because we worked together, we’re now on track to have enough vaccine supply for all Americans by the end of July. And it doesn’t mean that it’ll be in all Americans’ arms, but enough vaccine will be available by that time. These orders allow facilities like this one to plan ahead, accelerate their production schedules. Here’s what else we did: When we discovered that vaccine manufacturers weren’t being prioritized when it came to scrutinizing and securing supplies they needed, we fixed that problem and got them what they needed. We also used the Defense Production Act to speed up the supply chain for que- — for key equipment, like fill pumps and filters, which has already helped increase vaccine production. In fact, on our tier [sic] — on our tour today, they showed me a critical piece of machinery they didn’t have before; now, they do. And it’s allowing them to ramp up production. And as we increase supply, we’re carrying out a clear plan to get shots into the arms of 300 million Americans or more. And I know people want confidence that it’s safe. Well, I just toured, and that’s — where it’s being made. It takes more time to do the check for safety than it does to actually make the vaccine. That’s how fastidious they are. And listen to Dr. Fauci. Dr. Fauci assured me the COVID-9 [sic] vact- — vaccines were safe. That’s why, several weeks ago, I went through the rigorous scientific review. That’s why I took my vaccine shot publicly to demonstrate to the American people that I know and believe it’s safe. That’s why Vice President Harris also received her shot publicly. We all know there is some history — there’s some hesitancy about taking this vaccine. We all know there’s a history in this country of having subjected certain communities to terrible medical abuses in the past. But if there’s one message to cut through to everyone in this country, it’s this: The vaccines are safe. Please, for yourself, your family, your community, this country, take the vaccine when it’s your turn and available. That’s how to beat this pandemic. And we’re making progress. We deployed more vaccinators, the people who put the vaccine in your arm. We’re now making it possible for retired doctors and nurses to come back and, under the law, administer these shots. We’ve put new vaccinators in the field. These include over 800 medical personnel from our Commissioned Corps at the Department of Health and Human Services, and personnel from the Federal Emergency Management Agency — FEMA — the Defense Department, the National Guard. We’re literally lining up — we’re lining up thousands of vaccinators, because it’s one thing to have the vaccine, and it’s very different to get it in someone’s arms. We’re also creating more places for people to get vaccinated. We’ve provided $3 billion to states, territories, and tribes to create hundreds of new vaccination centers to ramp — and ramp up the existing ones that now — that are there. Right here in Michigan, with Governor Whitmer, FEMA has provided tens of millions of dollars to bolster the state’s community vaccination centers, from the National Guard at the Expo Center here in Kalamazoo, to the TF- — excuse me, the TCF Center in Detroit, to parking lots and churches across the state. We’ve worked with governors in California, Texas, New York, and more to come, to stand up massive — mass vaccine sites in stadiums that will be open 24/7, and arenas and community centers. It’s an effort that’s on top of the federal government covering the full cost for the states’ use of their National Guards for pandemic efforts. And you suggested I do that a while ago, and I promised you I’d do it, and we did it. We also started shipping vaccines directly to thousands of local pharmacies across the country so eligible folks can get the COVID-19 shot like they would a flu shot. Here in Michigan, that’s already more than 220 pharmacies, like Rite Aid and Meijers, in more than 130 Michigan cities. And that’s just the beginning. It’s only been four weeks. And for folks who aren’t near a pharmacy or a mass vaccination center, we’re deploying mobile clinics. These are special vehicles and pop-up clinics that meet folks where they live — folks who don’t have access to transportation to get the shots. We’re also supplying vaccines to community health centers — federal community health centers — to reach those who are hit the hardest: black, Latinos, Native Americans, and rural communities, which have higher rates of COVID infections and deaths than any other group. Here in Michigan, we’re already partnering with community health centers, serving more than 370,000 patients in 11 cities across the state. That’s because you guys have pointed out where they were and why it was so important, and how we get to — as Gary talks about, get to the people most in need and the people most dying from COVID. This is important to ensure everyone is treated equally and those hardest hit get the care they deserve. We’re now at a point where we’ve seen the average daily number of people vaccinated nearly double, from the week before I took office, to about 1.7 million average per day getting a shot. We’re on track to surpass my commitment. You may remember when I said, “In my first 100 days,” just before I was inaugurated — which seemed like 100 days. But anyway, “The first 100 days,” before I was inaugurated, “that we’d administer 100 million shots in my first 100 days.” But we’re on the path to do that. We’re averaging 1.7 million a day. Soon we’ll be at 50 million, and I’m confident we’ll exceed the number. But that’s just the floor. We have to keep going. But despite the progress, we’re still in the teeth of a pandemic. New strains are emerging. In a few days, we’ll cross 500,000 Americans who will have died from COVID-19. Five hundred thousand. That is almost 70,000 more than all the Americans who died in World War Two, over a four-year period. All the sorrow, all the heartache, all the pain. And while we wait for everyone to get vaccinated, we still need you to wash your hands, stay socially distanced, and mask up to help save lives. That’s why, with the authority I have as President, I signed an executive order — the only authority I have to require this — to require masking on all federal property, all modes of travel like planes, trains, and buses. And we’ve been calling on governors and mayors and local officials — Republicans and Democrats -– to institute mask mandates within their jurisdictions, just like Governor Whitmer has done here in Michigan. Look, I know it’s inconvenient, but you’re making a difference when you do it. Everything we do matters. We need everyone to do their part for themselves, for their loved ones, and, yes, for your country. It’s a patriotic duty. We need Congress to pass my American Rescue Plan that deals with the immediate crisis — the urgency. Now, critics say my plan is too big, that it costs $1.9 trillion. So that’s too much. Well, let me ask them: What would they have me cut? What would they have me leave out? Should we not invest $20 billion to vaccinate the nation? Should we not invest $290 million [billion] to extend unemployment insurance for the 11 million Americans who are unemployed so they can get by while they get back to work? Should we not invest $50 billion to help small businesses stay open, when tens of thousands have had to close permanently? Should we not invest — and, by the way, they make up half the employment in America. Should we not invest $130 million [billion] to help schools across the nation open safely? Right now, 24 million adults, 11 million children don’t have enough food to eat. And unless you think I’m exaggerating, think of those scenes you’ve seen on the television with cars lined up, which seemed like miles, to wait to have someone put a box of food in their trunk. People never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever thought they would need help, and through no fault of their own, they’re in that circumstance. If we don’t pass the American Rescue Plan, 40 million Americans will lose [some of their] nutritional assistance through a program we call SNAP, the old food stamp program. Do we not invest $3 million — $3 billion to keep families from going hungry? One in five Americans are behind in their rent. One in ten are being in their mortgages. How many people do you know that will go to bed tonight staring at the ceiling, saying, “God, what is going to happen if I don’t get my job, if I don’t have my unemployment check? What’s happened to me? I’m losing my health insurance. What do I do?” This is the United States of America, for God’s sake. We invest in people who are in need. Do we not invest $35 billion to help people keep a roof over their heads? I could go on, but you get the point. I’m grateful that the Senate and the House are moving quickly. And I’m prepared to hear their ideas on how to make the package better and make it cheaper. I’m open to that. But we have to make clear who is helped and who is hurt. And my hope is that the Republicans in Congress listen to their constituents. According to the polls, there is overwhelming bipartisan support. The vast majority of the American people — more than 70 percent of the American people, with all the polls you all conduct, including a majority of Republicans — want us to act, and act big and quickly and support the plan. Major economists — left, right, and center — say we should focus on smart investments we can make now in jobs, in our people to prevent long-term economic damage to our nation and to strengthen the economic competitiveness going forward. In fact, an analysis by the Wall Street firm Moody’s estimates that if we pass my American Rescue Plan, the economy will create 7 million jobs this year. This year. We’ve also been in constant contact with mayors and governors, county officials, members of Congress — both parties. Both parties. I’ve met with them in my office; I’ve met with them in — on the — on the Internet — on — Zooming on with them. Both parties in every state. And guess what? They agree we have to act now. I got a letter from more than 400 mayors, from big cities and small town. They understand we’re not going to get our economy back in shape and the millions of people back to work until we beat this virus. That’s why the American Rescue Plan puts 160 million — billion dollars into more testing and tracing, manufacturing and distribution, and setting up vaccination sites — everything that’s needed to get vaccines into people’s arms, which is the most difficult logistical effort the United States has undertaken in peace time. It includes $4 billion for new manufacturing plants so we’re ready to manufacture vaccines in the future. We don’t have to wait. I’m going to close with what I said before: I’ll always be straight with you. I said in my inaugural I’ll be — “give it to you straight from the shoulders,” Roosevelt said. Because the American people can take the truth. They can handle anything. I can’t give you a date when this crisis will end, but I can tell you we’re doing everything possible to have that day come sooner rather than later. And all of you here are doing some of the most important work in this facility, right here, that can be done. And I know this is personal: I walked in today, and I won’t say who came up to me, but one of the people in this building came up to me and said, “My father-in-law is dying from COVID.” I said, “Can I call?” He said, “No. He couldn’t take a call.” He says, “Keep him in his prayers, please.” How many of you know somebody who’s in real trouble or has passed? How many people do you know who sat down to breakfast this morning and looked at an empty chair across the table? You’ve seen the devastation of this virus in your family, your community, but you’re stepping up. You’re saving lives here — lives of your loved ones, your neighbors, your fellow Americans. You’re showing how this town, this state, this country takes care of our own, leaves nobody behind. We can do anything when we do it together. I believe we’re on the road. And I promise you, I know we’ll run into bumps. It’s not going to be easy here to the end, but we’re going to beat this. We’re going to beat this. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. And, Albert, thank you and your people for all you do. Thank you. Well, all we got to do is do a little bit of the math. Getting the vaccine and having it available is not the same as putting it in someone’s arms. This is going to be a continuous rolling effort. So we’ll have had — we will have ordered, much of which will have been distributed, over 600 million doses by the end of July. July 29th is the expected date. That could change. Look at what’s happening with the weather now, for example: It’s slowing up the distribution right now. But I believe we’ll be approaching normalcy by the end of this year. And God willing, this Christmas will be different than the last. But I can’t make that commitment to you. There are other strains of the virus. We don’t know what could happen in terms of production rates. Things can change. But we’re doing everything the science has indicated we should do, and people are stepping up to get everything done that has to be done. We’re going to have debates about whether or not — for example, I can’t set nationally who gets in line when and first. That’s a decision the states make. I can recommend. I can say what I’ve said — like, I’m the guy that said we should lower it to 65 years of age. I think 35 states have done that, or more. I think that — for example, I think it’s critically important to get our kids back to school. I think it’s really important because of the psychological damage being done and the loss of time. A kid loses a semester when they’re in fifth grade — it means they’re not just a semester behind; they may be a year and a half behind. All of the difficulty. You were at that town meeting I had with that little girl who was worried that, you know, her mommy — told her mommy she worried maybe she’s going to die. So there’s a lot. I think it’s important we get people back in school. There’s a difference, for example, according to the science now, between kids between the ages of 3 and probably 12 years old, in terms of whether they can absorb and/or communicate the disease than it is for kids who are 15, 16, 17, and 18 years old who congregate more together. It’s harder in a high school than it is in a grammar school. We know certain things are necessary: social distancing, smaller class sizes, ventilation, testing, and the possibility that staff, whether it’s the staff taking care of the sanitary conditions in the school, or simply — you’ve heard me say this before — bus drivers. To open the schools, we need more buses and bus drivers. We can’t put kids packed in a bus, sitting next to one another. So we know the things that have to be done. The question is the order in which we do them is going to — determined on what moves the quickest and where the need is the greatest. Obviously, we still have to focus on first responders, our doctors, our nurses, those delivering the services. But the reason I bother to bore you with that detail is to try to explain to the American people that this is a process, but we know now the fundamental basic elements. The fundamental basic elements are that, before you get the shot and after — if you get the shots and after — social distancing save lives, wearing masks saves lives, making sure that you wash your hands with hot water saves lives. This is not hyperbole. This is not a political statement. It’s a reality. The science has demonstrated that. We also know that it’s one thing to have a vaccine available. The problem was, how do you get it into people’s arms? There’s not enough people to vaccinate. All the great hospitals in this state, and in my state, they can line up and give people, but they can’t possibly handle the volume that is needed. So what do you do? You get more people qualified to give vaccinations. The quicker you can open up places and that people can come up and demonstrate they’re on — on the pecking order and they’re ready for their shot, and they’re qualified — keeping places open 24/7 makes a lot of sense, but you need people to do it. So we all know the basic things that have to happen. Now, we also know that there are things that intervene. Things happen. Weather. People get ill. People get confused. There’s a lot of people who don’t — aren’t able. You know, I — you’ve heard me say before — you know, my little granddaughter can use that cellphone of hers to do more in about 12 seconds than I can do it in an hour. But a lot of people aren’t able to — a lot of people who need the help. They say, “Well, get online.” Well, they don’t have a means to get online. They might not have, you know, the ability to get online, and they may not know how to do it. Talk about — everybody is — you know, most people are within five miles of a pharmacy. Well, if you’re living alone and you’re a 68-year-old woman, and you’re in a minority neighborhood, and there’s no bus service, you might as well be 500 miles away. That’s why we’re leading now — and, Gary, you talked to me about it — getting mobile vans to go out. So we know the kinds of things that have to be done. But there has never ever, ever been a logistical challenge as consequence — as consequential as we’re trying to do. But we’re getting it done. And as my mom would say, with the grace of God and the goodwill of neighbors, we’re going to save a lot of lives. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And it’s great to be with Angela and Emmanuel. We just spent part of — from Washington’s perspective — the morning together. But I want to say hello to everyone and thanks, you — at the Munich Conference for hosting this special session. For decades, as you pointed out, I’ve participated in the Munich Security Conference — as a U.S. senator, joining my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to affirm the importance of the transatlantic partnership; three times as the Vice President of the United States, including delivering the first international foreign policy address of the Obama-Biden administration in the first months we were in office. And two years ago, as you pointed out, when I last spoke at Munich, I was a private citizen; I was a professor, not an elected official. But I said at that time, “We will be back.” And I’m a man of my word. America is back. I speak today as President of the United States at the very start of my administration, and I’m sending a clear message to the world: America is back. The transatlantic alliance is back. And we are not looking backward; we are looking forward, together. It comes down to this: The transatlantic alliance is a strong foundation — the strong foundation — on which our collective security and our shared prosperity are built. The partnership between Europe and the United States, in my view, is and must remain the cornerstone of all that we hope to accomplish in the 21st century, just as we did in the 20th century. The challenges we face today are different. We’re at an inflection point. When I spoke to you as a senator and as even as Vice President, the global dynamics have shifted. New crises demand our attention. And we cannot focus only on the competition among countries that threaten to divide the world, or only on global challenges that threaten to sink us all together if we fail to cooperate. We must do both, working in lockstep with our allies and partners. So let me erase any lingering doubt: The United States will work closely with our European Union partners and the capitals across the continent — from Rome to Riga — to meet the range of shared challenges we face. We continue to support the goal of a Europe whole and free and at peace. The United States is fully committed to our NATO Alliance, and I welcome Europe’s growing investment in the military capabilities that enable our shared defense. You know, to me and to the United States, and to us, we’ll keep article — we’ll keep faith with Article 5. It’s a guarantee. An attack on one is an attack on all. That is our unshakable vow. And the only time Article 5 has been invoked was after the United States was attacked on 9/11. You, our allies, joined us to fight al Qaeda, and the United States committed to consulting closely with our NATO Allies and partners on the way forward in Afghanistan. My administration strongly supports the diplomatic proc- — process that’s underway and to bring an end to this war that is closing out 20 years. We remain committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again provides a base for terrorist attacks against the United States and our partners and our interests. Our European partners have also stood with us to counter ISIS. Just this week, NATO Defense Ministers endorsed a significantly expanded training and advisory mission in Iraq, which will be vital to the ongoing fight against ISIS. We cannot allow ISIS to reopen and regroup and threaten people in the Middle East, in Europe, in the United States, and elsewhere. And while the United States is undergoing a thorough review of our own force posture around the world, I’ve ordered the halting of withdrawal of American troops from Germany. I’m also lifting the cap imposed by the previous administration on the number of U.S. forces able to be based in Germany. I know — I know the past few years have strained and tested our transatlantic relationship, but the United States is determined — determined to reengage with Europe, to consult with you, to earn back our position of trusted leadership. Earlier today, as was referenced, I participated in the first meeting of the G7 leaders, where I spoke about the dire need to coordinate multilateral action to address COVID-19, the global economic crisis, and the accelerating climate crisis, and so much else. Achieving these goals is going to depend on a core strategic proposition, and that is: The United States must renew America’s enduring advantages so that we can meet today’s challenges from a position of strength. That means building back better our economic foundations; reclaiming our place in international institutions; lifting up our values at home, and speaking out to defend them around the world; modernizing our military capabilities while leading with diplomacy; revitalizing America’s network of alliances and partnerships that have made the world safer for all people. You know, I hope our fellow democracies are going to join us in this vital work. Our partnerships have endured and grown through the years because they are rooted in the richness of our shared democratic values. They’re not transactional. They’re not extractive. They’re built on a vision of a future where every voice matters, where the rights of all are protected and the rule of law is upheld. None of this has fully succeeded in this — none of us has fully succeeded in this division [vision]. We continue to work toward it. And in so many places, including in Europe and the United States, democratic progress is under assault. I have known for — I’ve known many of you for a long, long time, and you know that I speak my mind, so let me be straightforward with you all: We are in the midst of a fundamental debate about the future and direction of our world. We’re at an inflection point between those who argue that, given all the challenges we face — from the fourth industrial revolution to a global pandemic — that autocracy is the best way forward, they argue, and those who understand that democracy is essential — essential to meeting those challenges. Historians are going to examine and write about this moment as an inflection point, as I said. And I believe that — every ounce of my being — that democracy will and must prevail. We must demonstrate that democracies can still deliver for our people in this changed world. That, in my view, is our galvanizing mission. Democracy doesn’t happen by accident. We have to defend it, fight for it, strengthen it, renew it. We have to prove that our model isn’t a relic of our history; it’s the single best way to revitalize the promise of our future. And if we work together with our democratic partners, with strength and confidence, I know that we’ll meet every challenge and outpace every challenger. You know, we must prepare together for a long-term strategic competition with China. How the United States, Europe, and Asia work together to secure the peace and defend our shared values and advance our prosperity across the Pacific will be among the most consequential efforts we undertake. Competition with China is going to be stiff. That’s what I expect, and that’s what I welcome, because I believe in the global system Europe and the United States, together with our allies in the Indo-Pacific, worked so hard to build over the last 70 years. We can own the race for the future. But to do so, we have to be clear-eyed about the historic investments and partnerships that this will require. We have to protect — we have to protect for space for innovation, for intellectual property, and the creative genius that thrives with the free exchange of ideas in open, democratic societies. We have to ensure that the benefits of growth are shared broadly and equitably, not just by a few. We have to push back against the Chinese government’s economic abuses and coercion that undercut the foundations of the international economic system. Everyone — everyone — must play by the same rules. U.S. and European companies are required to publicly disclose corporate governance — to corporate governance structures and abide by rules to deter corruption and monopolistic practices. Chinese companies should be held to the same standard. We must shape the rules that will govern the advance of technology and the norms of behavior in cyberspace, artificial intelligence, biotechnology so that they are used to lift people up, not used to pin them down. We must stand up for the democratic values that make it possible for us to accomplish any of this, pushing back against those who would monopolize and normalize repression. You know, this is also — this is also how we’re going to be able to meet the threat from Russia. The Kremlin attacks our democracies and weaponizes corruption to try to undermine our system of governance. Russian leaders want people to think that our system is more corrupt or as corrupt as theirs. But the world knows that isn’t true, including Russians — Russia’s own citizens. Putin seeks to weaken European — the European project and our NATO Alliance. He wants to undermine the transatlantic unity and our resolve, because it’s so much easier for the Kremlin to bully and threaten individual states than it is to negotiate with a strong and closely united transatlantic community. That’s why — that’s why standing up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine remains a vital concern for Europe and the United States. That’s why addressing recklessness — Russian recklessness and hacking into computer networks, in the United States and across Europe and the world, has become critical to protecting our collective security. The challenges with Russia may be different than the ones with China, but they’re just as real. And it’s not about pitting East against West. It’s not about we want a conflict. We want a future where all nations are able to freely determine their own path without a threat of violence or coercion. We cannot and must not return to the reflective [reflexive] opposition and rigid blocs of the Cold War. Competition must not lock out cooperation on issues that affect us all. For example, we must cooperate if we’re going to defeat COVID-19 everywhere. My first presidential national security memorandum focused on surging health and humanitarian responses to defeat COVID-19 and to better prevent and prepare for the next pandemic. Today, I’m announcing that the United States is making a $2 billion pledge to COVAX, with the promise of an additional $2 billion to urge others to step up as well. Yet, even as we fight to get out of the teeth of this pandemic, the resurgence of Ebola in Africa is a stark reminder that we must simultaneously work to finally finance health security; strengthen global health systems; and create early warning systems to prevent, detect, and respond to future biological threats, because they will keep coming. We have to work together to strengthen and reform the World Health Organization. We need a U.N. system focused on biological threats that can move quickly to trigger action. Similarly, we can no longer delay or do the bare minimum to address climate change. This is a global, existential crisis, and we’ll all suffer — we’ll all suffer the consequences if we fail. We have to rapidly accelerate our commitments to aggressively curb our emissions and to hold one another accountable for meeting our goals and increasing our ambitions. That’s why, as President, I immediately rejoined the Paris Agreement, and as of today, the United States is officially once again a party to the Paris Agreement, which we helped put together. On Earth Day, I will host a leaders summit to help drive more ambitious actions among top emitters, including domestic climate action here in the United States. I am grateful — I’m grateful for Europe’s continued leadership on climate issues over the last four years. Together, we need to invest in the technological innovations that are going to power our clean energy futures and enable us to build clean energy solutions to global markets. The threat of nuclear proliferation also continues to require careful diplomacy and cooperation among us. We need transparency and communication to minimize the risk of strategic misunderstanding or mistakes. That’s why the United States and Russia, notwithstanding other competition, extended the New START Treaty for an additional four [five] years once I came — I was sworn in. That’s why we have said we’re prepared to reengage in negotiations with the P5+1 on Iran’s nuclear program. We must also address Iran’s destabilizing activities across the Middle East, and we’re going to work in close cooperation with our European and other partners as we proceed. We’ll also work together to lock down fissile and radiological material to prevent terrorist groups from acquiring or using them. Look, the range of challenges Europe and the United States must take on together is broad and complex. And I’m eager to hear — I’m eager to hear — I’m eager to hear next from my good friends and outstanding leaders, Chancellor Merkel, about her thoughts on the way forward together. So let me conclude with this: We cannot allow self-doubt to hinder our ability to engage each other or the larger world. The last four years have been hard. But Europe and the United States have to lead with confidence once more, with faith in our capacities, a commitment to our own renewal, with trust in one another and the ability of Europe and the United States to meet any challenge to secure our futures together. I know we can do this. We’ve done it before. Just yesterday — after a seven-month, 300-million mile journey — NASA successfully landed the Perseverance Rover on Mars. It’s on a mission of exploration, with elements contributed by our European partners to seek evidence of the possibility of life beyond our planet and the mysteries of the universe. Over the next few years — “Percy” is call — but Perseverance will range and collect samples from the Red Planet and pile them up so another mission and rover, envisioned as a joint effort between NASA and the European Space Agency, will retrieve this trove of scientific wonders and bring it home to all of us. That’s what we can do together. If our unbound capacity to carry us to Mars and back don’t tell us anything else, they tell us we can meet any challenge we can face on Earth. We have everything we need. And I want you to know the United States will do — we’ll do our part. We’ll stand with you. We’ll fight for our shared values. We’ll meet the challenges of this new moment in history. America is back. So let’s get together and demonstrate to our great, great grandchildren, when they read about us, that democracy — democracy — democracy functions and works, and together, there is nothing we can’t do. So let’s get working. Thank you all very much. Thank you, folks. Yes, I had a chance to speak with the governor again last night, and I asked him whether he was about to ask for another effort to — because the circumstances Texas finds itself in — whether he was going to seek additional assistance. And we talked — I talked with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA — the administrator. This afternoon, I’m going to ask him to accelerate our response and request for, quote — it’s a different declaration — a “Major Disaster Declaration” so that we can get everything done that we need that’s possible to get done with federal government help. FEMA is already there and providing support — generators, diesel fuel, water, blankets, and other supplies. But I’ve directed Health and Human Services — HHS — Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense to identify other resources — other resources that can provide and address the growing needs of the folks in — in Texas. And as a little bit along the lines I was just talking about, when any state — as I said when I ran, I’m going to be a President for all of America — all — red, blue; there’s no red or blue. It’s all about commitment to — the American people make to one another. And so we’re going to sign that declaration once it’s in front of me. And God willing, it will bring a lot of relief to a lot of Texans. And so thank you all so very much. Say again. It depends. The answer is yes. The question is, I had planned on being in Texas the middle of next week, but what I don’t want to be is a burden. When the President lands in any city in America, it creates — there’s a — it has a long tail. And they’re working like the devil to take care of their folks. If, in fact, it’s concluded that I can do it without creating a burden for the folks on the ground while they’re dealing with this crisis, I plan on going. But I’ll — we’ll know that — we’ll make that decision probably the beginning of next week. Okay? Thank you. Everybody, come on in. Don’t get hurt. Every once in a while, as President, you get to invite close friends into the Oval. I was kidding these guys before. This is American labor. And I said from the beginning of my campaign, throughout my whole career: The middle class built this country, and labor built the middle class. And I think we have an incredible opportunity to make some enormous progress in creating jobs — good-paying jobs, Davis-Bacon and prevailing wage jobs — to rebuild the infrastructure of this country in a way that everybody knows has to be done. I promised — and a lot of these folks have been my friends for a long, long, long time. As they say in parts of my state, “These are the folks that brung me to the dance.” And I appreciate their friendship. And as I said — when some of you were in here when I was with the business community, I said I want to make it clear I’m a labor guy, and there’s no reason why it’s inconsistent with businesses growing either. So what we’re doing here today, we’re — I asked them to come in — we want to talk about the Recovery Act we have here that we’re trying to pass — and I think it’s going to get done — and building infrastructure in this country. We are so far behind the curve. We rank something like 38th in the world in terms of our infrastructure — everything from canals to highways to airports to — everything we can do, and we need to do, to make ourselves competitive in the 21st century. And so the Vice President and I are looking forward to this meeting, and we’re going to have a good conversation. And I think, you know, American workers and the whole economy is going to grow in a way that we haven’t seen it grow in a long time. This is the time for us to move. So, anyway, I’ll let you know. We’re going to have a long conversation here. I don’t know how long, but we’re going to have a conversation as long as they’re willing to put up with me, and talk about how we’re going to get this done. So, thank you all for coming in. I learned, based on the polling data, they want everything that’s in the plan. Not a joke. Everything that’s in the plan. I — the fact is that I’d like to — I asked a rhetorical question: Those who oppose the plan, what don’t they like? What particular program don’t they like? Don’t they want to help people with nutrition? Don’t they want to help people be able to pay their mortgages? Don’t they want to help people get their unemployment insurance? Don’t they want to make sure that people are able to stay in their homes without being thrown out of their homes in the middle of this god-awful pandemic? What don’t they like? And the truth of the matter is, the polling data from last night, and all the polls you’ve all done — they come from you guys; not you personally, but your networks and your organizations — show that somewhere between 64 and 69 percent of the American people think we have to do this. And it’s not about the money; it’s about in order to do everything from open schools, as we should, to make sure that we’re generating income for people who are in real trouble. It’s about how much it costs. The federal government has to chip in, make sure we get this done. And as I said, almost every major economist in the country, and International Monetary Fund as well, says it’s going to grow the economy. And that’s what we’re talking about here. We’re going to talk about how we grow the economy. So thank you all for coming in. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. A good conversation. Hey, Anderson. Good to see you, man. Hey, folks. How are you? Good to be back, man. And you know you enjoy being home with the baby more. I don’t want to hear this. I get it. No, no, everybody knows I like kids better than people. That’s right. Sure. By the end of July of this year. We have — we came into office, there was only 50 million doses that were available. We have now — by the end of July, we’ll have over 600 million doses — enough to vaccinate every single American. They’ll be available. They’ll be available. Here, look, we — what we did — we got into office and found out the supply — there was no backlog. I mean, there was nothing in the refrigerator, figuratively and literally speaking, and there were 10 million doses a day that were available. We’ve upped that, in the first three weeks that we were in office, to significantly more than that. We’ve moved out — went to the Pfizer and Moderna, and said, “Can you produce more vaccine and more rapidly?” They not only agreed to go from 200 to 400 — and they’ve agreed to go to 600 million doses. And that’s — and they’re — and we got them to move up the time because we used the National Defense Act to be able to help the manufacturing piece of it to get more equipment and so on. Well, no, a lot will be being vaccinated in the meantime. In other words, it’s not all of a sudden 600 million doses are going to appear. And what’s going to happen is: It’s going to continue to increase as we move along, and we’ll have — we’ll have reached 400 million by the end of May and 600 million by the middle of — by the end of July. And the biggest thing, though, as you remember when you and I — no, I shouldn’t say it that way, “as you remember” — but when you and I talked last, we talked about — it’s one thing to have the vaccine, which we didn’t have when we came into office, but a vaccinator — how do you get the vaccine into someone’s arm? So you need the paraphernalia. You need the needle, and you need mechanisms to be able to get it in. You have to have people who can inject it into people’s arms. Yes, now we have — we have made significant strides increasing the number of vaccinators. I’ve — I issued an executive order allowing former retired docs and nurses to do it. We have over 1,000 military personnel. The CDC is — I mean, excuse me, the — we have gotten the National Guard engaged. So we have significant number of vaccinators — people who would actually be there. Plus, we’ve opened up a considerable number of locations where you can get the vaccination. How you doing? Yes. My mother would say, “God bless you, son.” No purgatory for you — four kids home. I really mean it. And, by the way, the loss of being able to be in school is having significant impact on the children and parents as well. And so, what we found out is, there are certain things that make it rational and easy to go back to the brick-and-mortar building. One, first of all, making sure everybody is wearing protective gear — it’s available to students, as well as to teachers, the janitors, the people who work in the cafeteria, the bus drivers. Secondly, organizing in smaller pods, which means that’s why we need more teachers. Instead of a classroom of 30 kids in it, you have three classes and that same — of 10 kids each in those. And I’m — I’m not making the number up; it might be less. It doesn’t have to be literally 10. In addition to that, we also have indicated that it is much better, it’s much easier to send kids K-through-8 back because they are less likely to communicate the disease to somebody else. But because kids in — sophomores, juniors, and seniors in high school — they socialize a lot more, and they’re older, and they transmit more than young kids do, it’s harder to get those schools open without having everything from the ventilation systems and — and having — For example, school bus drivers — you know, we — we got to make sure that you don’t have 60 kids, or however many there — depending on the size of school bus — sitting two abreast in every single seat. And so there’s a lot of things we can do, short of — and I think that we should be vaccinating teachers. We should move them up in the hierarchy as well. No, that’s not true. That’s what was reported; that’s not true. There was a mistake in the communication. But what I — what I’m talking about is I said opening the majority of schools in K-through-eighth grade because they’re the easiest to open, the most needed to be opened, in terms of the impact on children and families having to stay home. I think we’ll be close to that at the end of the first 100 days. We’ve had a significant percentage of them being able to be opened. My — my guess is they’re going to probably be pushing to open all for — all summer — to continue like it’s a different semester . I think — I think many of them are five days a week. The goal will be five days a week. Now, it’s going to be harder to open up the high schools for the reasons I said — just like, if you notice, the contagion factor in colleges is much higher than it is in high schools or grade schools. What do you teach? My wife teaches. God love you. Number one, nobody is suggesting, including the CDC in this recent out report, that you have large classes, congested classes. It’s smaller classes; more ventilation; making sure that everybody has masks and is socially distanced, meaning you have less — fewer students in one room; making sure that everyone from the sanitation workers who work in the — in the lavatories, in the bathrooms, and do the — and do the — all the maintenance, that they are in fact able to be protected as well. Making sure you’re in a situation where you don’t have the congregation of a lot of people — as I said, including the school bus, including getting on a school bus. So it’s about needing to be able to socially distance, smaller classes, more protection. And I think the teachers and the folks who work in the school — the cafeteria workers and others — should be on the list of preferred to get a vaccination. Kerri, how are you? Well, the answer is: Yes, there are. But here’s how it works: The states make the decision on who is — or in what order. I can make recommendations, and for federal programs, I can do that as President of the United States. But I can’t tell the state, “You must move such and such a group of people up.” But here’s what I’d like to do: If you’re willing, I’ll stay around after this is over, and maybe we can talk a few minutes and see if I can get you some help. Yes, it would. Well, it depends on how much they have available. I think there still should be priority groups in case there are not enough for everyone, every- — available to everybody. And, look, we don’t know for certain. Let me tell you what my national COVID team has said: that the variants, the — by “variants,” you mean the Brazilian strain, the South African strain, the British strain — — and London, et cetera. There’s thus far — thus far, there is no evidence that the existing vaccinations available for Moderna and Pfizer do not either make sure that they apply — they work as well against the strain in the United States. And there is no evidence that they’re not helpful. So if you can get a vaccination, get it whenever you can get it, regardless of the other strains that are out there. There are studies going on to determine it is not only more communicable, but are there vaccine — do the vaccines not provide helpful protection by getting the vaccine. There are some speculation. I shouldn’t — I got to be very careful — right? — because millions of people are watching this. It may be that a certain vaccination for a certain strain may reduce from 95 percent to a lower percentage of certainty that it will keep you from getting — It may not be as effective. It’d still be effective. So the clear notion is: If you’re eligible, if it’s available, get the vaccine. Get the vaccine. By the way — you’ve heard me say this before, Becky [sic] — if there’s any angels in heaven, they’re all nurses, male and female. Doctors let you live, nurses make you want to live. I can tell you as a consumer of healthcare — my family. You’re wonderful. Thank you for what you do. Well, first of all, it is a priority, number one. Number two, there’s two reasons for it being the way it is. Number one, there is some history of blacks being used as guinea pigs and other experiments — I need not tell you, Doctor — over the last 50 to 75 to 100 years in America. So there’s a — there is a concern about getting the vaccine, whether it’s available or not. But the biggest part of it is access — physical access. That’s why, last week, I opened up — I met with the Black Caucus in the United States Congress and agreed that I would — all — all of the fed- — all of the community health centers now, which take care of the toughest of the toughest neighborhoods in terms of illness, they are going to get a million doses, you know, a week, in how we’re going to move forward, because they’re in the neighborhood. Secondly, we have opened up — and I’m making sure that there’s doses of vaccine for over 6,700 pharmacies, because almost everyone lives within not always walking distance, but within the distance of being able to go to the pharmacy, like when you got your flu shot. That is also now being opened. Thirdly, I also am providing for mobile — mobile vans, mobile units to go into neighborhoods that are hard to get to because people are on — for example, even though everyone is within, you know, basically five miles of a Walgreens, let’s say, the fact is, if you’re 70 years old, you don’t have a vehicle, and you live in a tough neighborhood — meaning you’re — it’s a high concentration of COVID — you’re not likely to be able to walk five miles to go get a vaccine. The other thing we found is — and I’m sorry to go on, but this is really important to me. The other part — portion is, a lot of people don’t know how to register. Not everybody in the community — in the Hispanic and the African American community, particularly in rural areas that are distant and/or inner-city districts — know how to use — know how to get online to determine how to get in line for that COVID vaccination at the Walgreens or at the particular store. So we’re also — I’ve committed to spend a billion dollars on public education to help people figure out how they can get in there. That’s why we’re also trying to set up mass vaccination centers, like places in stadiums and the like. Sure. Yes. And I have. Because look — look what we inherited: We inherited a circumstance here, where — and now for the first — we did a lot in the first two weeks — a circumstance where, number one, there weren’t many vaccinators. You didn’t know where you could go get a vaccine administered to you because there was no one to put it in your arm — number one. Number two, there was very little federal guidance; it’s to say, what to look for, how to find out where, in fact, you could go. You can go online, and every single state now has a slightly different mechanism by which they say who’s qualified, where you can get the vaccines, and so on. So it’s all about trying to more rationalize in detail so ordinary people, like me, can understand. I mean that sincerely. I mean, I’m not — my — you know, my grandchildren can use that online — you know, make me look like I’m in, you know, the seventh century. But all kidding aside, so this is a process, and it’s going to take time. It took us a — think of what we didn’t do. And you and I talked about this during the campaign. We didn’t do from the time it hit the — it hit the United States. “You’re going to inject something in your arm, it’s going to go away.” “You’re going to be in a — it’ll all be done by Easter.” We wasted so much time. So much time. Well first of all, honey — what’s your first name? Layla. Beautiful name. First of all, kids don’t get the vacci- — get COVID very often. It’s unusual for that to happen. They don’t — they — and there — the evidence so far is, children aren’t the people most likely to get COVID — number one. Number two, we haven’t even done tests yet on children as to whether or not the certain vaccines would work or not work, or what is needed. So that’s — so you — you’re the safest group of people in the whole world — number one. Number two, you’re not likely to be able to be exposed to something and spread it to mommy or daddy. And it’s not likely mommy and daddy are able to spread it to you either. So I wouldn’t worry about it, baby. I promise you. But I know it’s, kind of, worrisome. Are you in first grade, second grade? Oh, you’re getting old. Second grade. Well, has your school — have you been in school, honey? No. See, that’s — that’s, kind of, a scary thing too: You don’t get to go to school; you don’t get to see your friends. And so what a lot of kids — and I mean — and big people too, older people — they just — their whole lives have, sort of, changed, like when it used to be. It used to be, let’s go outside and play with your friends and get in the school bus and go to school, and everything was normal. And now, when things change, people get really worried and scared. But don’t be scared, honey. Don’t be scared. You’re going to be fine. And we’re going to make sure mommy is fine too. Sure. Well, you know, all the experts, all the committee that I put together of the leading researchers in the world and in the United States who are on this committee of mine, headed by Dr. Fauci and others, they tell me: Be careful not to predict things that you don’t know for certain what’s going to happen because then you’ll be held accountable. I get that. But let me tell you what I think based on all that I’ve learned and all that I’ve studied and all that I think that I know. It’s fairly — it’s a high probability that the vaccinations that are available today — and the new one, Johnson & Johnson, God willing — will prove to be useful; that with those vaccinations, the ability to continue to spread the disease is going to diminish considerably because of what they call “herd immunity.” And now they’re saying somewhere around 70 percent of the people have to constitute; some people said 50, 60. But a significant number have to be in a position where they are — they have been vaccinated and/or they’ve been through it and — And have antibodies. And so, if that works that way — as my mother would say, with the grace of God and the goodwill of the neighbors — that by next Christmas, I think we’ll be in a very different circumstance, God willing, than we are today. I think a year from now, when it’s 22 below zero here — — no, a year from now, I think that there’ll be significantly fewer people having to be socially distanced, have to wear masks, et cetera. But we don’t know. So I don’t want to over-promise anything here. I told you when I ran and when I got elected: I will always level with you. To use Franklin Roosevelt’s example, I’ll shoot to give it “straight from the shoulder” — straight from the shoulder what I know and what I don’t know. We don’t know for certain, but it is highly unlikely that by the beginning of next year’s school — traditional school year in September, we are not significantly better off than we are today, but it matters. It matters whether you continue to wear that mask. It matters whether you continue to socially distance. It matters whether you wash your hands with hot water. It — those things matter. They matter. And that can save a lot of lives while we’re getting to this point, we get to herd immunity. I’m committed to pass- — look, here’s — some of you are probably economists or college professors or you’re teaching in school. This is the first time in my career — and as you can tell, I’m over 30 — the first time in my career that there is a consensus among economists left, right, and center that is over- — and including the IMF and in Europe — that the overwhelming consensus is: In order to grow the economy a year or two, three, and four down the line, we can’t spend too much. Now is the time we should be spending. Now is the time to go big. You may recall I managed the last experiment we had with stimulus, and it was 800 — — no, I don’t mean it that way, but it was $800 billion. We thought we needed more than that. And we think we did. We got — we were — it ended up working, but it slowed things up by about — and it, depending who you talked to — between six months and a year and a half. We can come back — we can come roaring back. It’s estimated that if we — by most economists, including Wall Street firms, as well as — as — as, you know, think tanks — political think tanks — left, right, and center — it is estimated that if we pass this bill alone, we’ll create 7 million jobs this year. Seven million jobs this year. And so the thing we haven’t talked about — and I’m not going to go on because I want to hear your question, and I apologize — we haven’t talked about — I remember you and I talking during the campaign, and you had the former guy saying that, “Well, you know, we’re just going to open things up, and that’s all we need to do.” We said, “No, you got to deal with the disease before you deal with the — with getting the economy going.” Well, the fact is that the economy now has to be dealt with. And what is — look at all the people. You have over 10 million people unemployed. We need unemployment insurance. We need to make sure that, you know, you have — 40 percent of the children in America are — talk about food shortage — 60 percent of — did you ever think you’d see a day, Milwaukee — you’d see in the last six months, people lining up in their automobiles for an hour, for as far as you can see, to get a bag of food? What — I mean, this is the United States of America, for God’s sake. We can’t deal with that? We promised — look at all the people who are on the verge of being kicked out of their apartments because they cannot afford — they cannot afford the rent. What happens when that happens? Everything . Look at all the mom-and-pop landlords that are in real trouble if we don’t subsidize this in the meantime. Look at all the people who are on the verge of missing — and how many people have missed their last two mortgage payments and are able to be foreclosed on. That’s why I took executive action to say they cannot be foreclosed on in the meantime. Because look at what the impact on the economy would be. You think it’s bad now, let all that happen. Look at all the people who’ve lost their insurance. How many — I’m not asking for a show of hands. How many of you had jobs with corporations or companies that provided healthcare? The COBRA healthcare. Well, guess what? The company goes under, and guess what? You lose your health insurance. Well, we should be making sure you’re able to pay for that so that we keep people moving. So there’s a lot — so I think bigger. And the vast majority of serious people say bigger is better now, not spending less. Well, first of all, the South is not much different than the Midwest in that regard as well. But here’s the thing: If you look back over the last 40 years, as minimum wages increased, people haven’t — the end — the end result of net employment hasn’t changed. The vast majority of economists — and there are studies that show that by increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour, it could have an impact on — on a number of businesses, but it would be de minimis, et cetera. Here’s the deal: It’s about doing it gradually. We’re at $7.25 an hour. No one should work 40 hours a week and live in poverty. No one should work 40 hours a week and live in poverty. But it’s totally legitimate for small-business owners to be concerned about how that changes. For example, if it went — if we gradually increased it — when we indexed it at $7.20, if we kept it indexed by — to inflation, people would be making 20 bucks an hour right now. That’s what it would be. Yes, but there’s also — if you read that whole thing about Pinocchios and all the rest — there are also an equal number of studies that say that’s not — that wouldn’t have that effect, and particularly as you do it in terms of how gradually you do it. So let’s say — you said you’re going to increase the minimum wage from $7.25 an hour, between now and the year 2025, to $12 an hour, to $13 — you double someone’s pay — and the impact on business would be absolutely diminished, and it would grow the GDP, and it would grow and it would generate economic growth. But it’s not illegitimate as a small-business person to worry about whether or not increasing it at one fell swoop would have that impact. I do support a $15 minimum wage. I think there is equally as much, if not more, evidence to dictate that it would grow the economy and, long run and medium run, benefit small businesses as well as large businesses, and it would not have such a dilatory effect. But that’s a debatable issue. Change it drastically, first of all, by making sure we have inspectors general. You may remember when the first bill passed, you may remember there was a guy running, saying, “What’s going to happen is the banks aren’t going to lend you the money. They’re going to ask you a question, ‘Do you have your credit with us? How many loans do you have with us? What is your — what credit cards do you have with us? How…” Because even though they were being underwritten, and we bailed their rear ends out — last time out, they weren’t — it was too much trouble to lend to you. What did the President do? And I don’t want to pick on the Pres- — I shouldn’t — I don’t — I’m tired of talking about Donald Trump. I don’t want to talk about him anymore. But the last administration spent time — a lot of time talking about how there was no need for inspector generals. We find out that 40 percent of the money — the PPE loans to go to — PP — PPP loans that go to small businesses went to — went to corporations that were multimillion-dollar corporations. And you’re going to see an investigation showing that a lot of this was fraudulent where it went. So what I’m doing is I’m providing $60 billion for you to be able to make capital investments in order to be able to open safely and make sure you’re in a position that you can do the things that are recommended. If you’ve noticed, there’s been very little federal direction for you all as to how to safely open your businesses. Yet, you know, if you’re able to test your employees, if you’re able to be in a situation if you — if you serve people, you have Plexiglas dividers; if you — a whole range. If you’re able to have everybody with a — with a mask and the like, you can do so much to safely open, but you don’t get that direction. So, the money, I guarantee you, is going to go to small businesses with people. And I’m shooting — and, by the way, the original definition of a small businesses is 500 or fewer employees. Well, that’s not what I mean by small businesses. What we meant by small business is the mom-and-pop businesses that hold communities together and keep people together, and particularly in neighborhoods where if you don’t have a beauty shop, a barber shop, a hardware store, a grocery store, et cetera, the center of the community begins to disintegrate some. So what I’d like to do is, if you are willing to give me an address, lay out for you precisely — without taking more time, I’m going to get in trouble; I’m supposed only took two minutes in an answer — is to let you know exactly how that $60 billion in part of the recovery package will go to small businesses. I’m not going to call names out. I — look, I — for four years, all that’s been in the news is Trump. The next four years, I want to make sure all in the news is the American people. I’m tired of talking about Trump. It’s done. I made it clear: One of the things about — one of the most serious pieces of damage done by the last administration was the politic- — the politicizing of the Justice Department. Any of you who are lawyers know — whether you’re a Democrat, Republican, conservative, or liberal — it has been more politicized than any Justice Department in American history. I made a commitment: I will not ever tell my Justice Department — and it’s not mine; it’s the people’s Justice Department — who they should and should not prosecute. Their prosecutorial decisions will be left to the Justice Department, not me. I’m not bad at the literature part, but after five years of French, I still can’t speak a word. So I apologize. I — hey, by the way, I understand a little bit of Yiddish. It is complex, it’s wide ranging, and it’s real. You may — I got involved in politics to begin with because of civil rights and opposition to white supremacists, the Ku Klux Klan. And the most dangerous people in America continue to exist. That is the greatest threat to terror in America: domestic terror. And so I would make sure that my Justice Department and the Civil Rights Division is focused heavily on those very folks. And I would make sure that we, in fact, focus on how to deal with the rise of white supremacy. And you see what’s happening — and the studies that are beginning to be done, maybe at your university as well — about the impact of former military, former police officers, on the growth of white supremacy in some of these groups. You may remember in one of my debates with the former President, I asked him to condemn the Proud Boys. He wouldn’t do it. He said, “Stand by. Stand ready.” Or whatever the phrasing exactly was. It is a bane on our existence. It has always been. As Lincoln said, “We have to appeal to our better angels.” And these guys are not — and women — are, in fact, demented. They are dangerous people. James, if I say anything you don’t like, let me know right away, will you? About as big as a mountain. Three things. First of all, I was a public defender as well, and I think it’s high time that we had public defenders being paid the same as prosecutors. My son, by the way, was a great prosecutor; he was the attorney general of the state of Delaware, and he was a federal prosecutor before that. And so I’m not condemning all prosecutors, but I am saying that it matters that you have adequate defense and you are able to attract people who, in fact, can live on being able to be that public defender — number one. Number two — we are pushing very hard, and I think we’ll get it done — is the legislation relating to what is appropriate police behavior and studying police behavior, and coming down with recommendations that are consistent with the legislation that was put in place as a consequence of all the world seeing one man shoved up against the curb and murdered after 8 minutes and 46 seconds. And so there’s a number of things relating to everything from no-knock warrants and — and a whole range of things you know. But there’s legislation that’s being introduced separately. I hope it will pass. But thirdly, I think we have to deal with systemic racism that exists throughout society. And one of the things I’m going to recommend there is that we look at an entire panoply of things that affect whether or not people of color, primarily, are — are treated differently. And that goes through everything from prosecutorial discretion — you know, as a public defender what, by that, I mean. What happens is — it’ll take too long to go through the whole explanation, but let me do it — try to go quickly. What happens now is, if you in fact are going to — you arrest someone because they had — and you want to charge them, you can charge them with robbery or armed robbery. If you charge them with armed robbery, you get a lot more time than if you don’t charge with robbery. But if you want to make sure that someone who doesn’t know much about their representation is able to , you engage in prosecutorial misconduct by offering them to plead to, essentially — it’s not the same — burglary, which gets them two years in probation and — so you don’t even get a trial. You plead because you don’t have adequate representation. You feel like everything is against you, and you’re in trouble. When I did the sentencing act, that was designed to keep — make sure we had the same time for the same crime. As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I looked at all 10 federal districts — and we took six months to do it — and found out if you’re black, and you — or your first-time offense of being accused of burglary — and maybe you committed it and you were white and you did the same exact crime — in all 10 districts throughout the United States of America, a person — and don’t hold me to the exact numbers, but the percentages are right — if you’re a first-time white guy, you’d get two years; you’d get seven years if you were black. So in order to make sure that you could not send people to jail for the same crime, I came up with this pr- — this Sentencing Commission, which said that you — everybody who commits the crime has to receive between — instead of zero to 20 years, you drastically cut down the number of years you could go to jail. But say you have to — if you — if it’s a one — first-time offense, you have to get sentenced between one and a half and three years. Okay? Well, what happens is prosecutors use that as a mechanism to send people to jail. It makes it look like they’re — we’re dealing with mandatory sentencing, which it wasn’t designed to do at all. It was designed to make sure that people were treated fairly. There’s much — I’m sorry to go on. There’s much more to talk about, but — Exactly. By, number one, not defunding the police. We have to put more money in police work so we have legitimate community policing and we’re in a situation where we change the legislation. No one should go to jail for a drug offense. No one should go to jail for the use of a drug. They should go to drug rehabilitation. Drug rehabilitation. Number one. We should be in a position where we change the system — of sentencing system — to one that relates to a notion of — they start telling you to — as related to making sure that what you do is you focus on making sure that there’s rehabilitation. The idea that we don’t have people in prison systems learning how to be — spending the money — learning how to be mechanics, learning how to be cooks, learning how to have a profession when you get out; the idea that we deny someone, who served their time, access to Pell Grants, access to housing, access to — right now, as you well know, most places you get out of prison, you get 25 bucks and a bus ticket. You end up back under the bridge exactly where you were before. And the fact is that — the concern in many minority communities is black-on-black, Hispanic-on-Hispanic, not just — But here’s the deal: There has to be much more serious –how can I say it? — much more serious determination as to what the background and the attitudes of the recruit is, where — what their views are. There should be much more psychological testing, like you would if you’re going to the intelligence community. What is it? What are the things that make you respond the way you do? Because there is — there is inherent prejudice built into the system as well. And we also need to provide for — and it’s happening — more African American and more Hispanic police officers. And, by the way, they don’t get it all right either, by a long shot. But every cop, when they get up in the morning and put on that shield, has a right to expect to be able to go home to their family that night. Conversely, every kid walking across the street wearing a hoodie is not a member of a gang and is about to knock somebody off. So it’s about education. I’d love to talk to you more about it because it’s — it is the answer, in my view — that and education — actually, access to education. And one of the things that I talk a lot about — and I’m sorry to go on about this, but it’s important: I don’t think we can look at opportunity in the Af- — let’s stick with African American community for a minute — in terms of the criminal justice system. That is only one small piece of why people are the way they are. You realize — I don’t know what home you live in, but if you go ahead and you want to get insurance, and you’re in a black neighborhood, you’re going to pay more for the same insurance that I’m going to pay for the exact same home. Your car — you never had an accident in your car. If you live in a black neighborhood, you’re going to pay a higher premium on your car. You’re going to — So, there’s so many things that are built in institutionally that disadvantage African Americans and Latinos that we — in fact, I think — and one of the great advantages — I’m sorry, but one of the great advantages — as bad as things are — I keep reading from presidential historians how I’ve inherited the worst situation since Lincoln, worse than Roosevelt, because — economic crisis, political crisis, racial crisis, et cetera. But the fact is that everyone has gotten a close-up look now and seen what’s happened. That kid — that kid holding that camera for 8 minutes and 46 seconds awakened the whole world. When I met with his little daughter, after he was dead, she said, “My Daddy has changed the world.” Guess what? Not only here in the United States. Around the world, people said, “Whoa, I didn’t know that happened.” Dr. King — when my generation — when I got involved in the Civil Rights Movement as a high school student in the early ’60s — and you had Bull Connor and his dogs in the late ’50s sicking on those ladies going to — in their black dresses going to church — and little kids and fire hoses ripping their skin off. He said, “What happened there was — it was a second emancipation.” Because people in places where there weren’t black communities said, “That really happens? I didn’t believe it.” They saw it happen. And so it generated the — the Voting Rights Act. It generated the Civil Rights Act. And he called it the “Second Emancipation.” We have a chance now — a chance now to make significant change in racial disparities. And I’m going to say something that’s going to get me in trouble, which — I couldn’t go through the whole show without doing that. And that is that — think about it: If you want to know where the American public is, look at the money being spent in advertising. Did you ever, five years ago, think every second or third ad out of five or six you’d turn on would be biracial couples? No, no, I’m not — I’m not being fac- — the reason I’m so hopeful is this new generation — they’re not like us. They’re thinking differently. They’re more open. And we got to take advantage of it. I’m sorry. Good evening. I take issue with what everybody says about the division. For example, my plan on And — Yes. Yeah, there’s a whole range of things that relate to immigration, including the whole idea how you deal with — you know, what confuses people, is you talk about refugees, you talk about undocumented, you talk about people who are seeking asylum, and you talk about people who are coming from the — that are coming from camps or being held around the world. And there are four different criteria for being able to come to the United States. The vast majority of the people, those 11 million undocumented, they’re not Hispanics; they’re people who came on a visa — who was able to buy a ticket to get in a plane, and didn’t go home. They didn’t come across the Rio Grande swimming — excuse me. And — and — sorry, that’s the Irish in me. But all kidding aside. So there are a lot of things that relate — but I think that we can no long- — look, you’ve he- — I’m — even if you’re not involved in politics at all, you’ve probably heard me say this a thousand times, and matter of — that everyone is entitled to be treated with decency, with dignity. Everyone is entitled to that. And we don’t do that enough. For the first time in American history, if you’re seeking asylum — meaning you’re being persecuted, you’re seeking asylum — you can’t do it from the United States. You used to come, have an asylum officer determine whether or not you met the criteria, and send you back if you in fact — but you can’t even do that. You’ve got to seek asylum from abroad. Yes. Yes. Well, yes. But, by the way, if you came along and said to me, “In the meantime, we can work out a system whereby we’re going to…” For example, we used to allow refugees — 125,000 refugees in the United States in a yearly basis. It was as high as 250,000. Trump cut it to 5,000. Come with me into Sierra Leone. Come with me into parts of Lebanon. Come with me around the world and see people piled up in camps, kids dying, no way out, refugees fleeing from persecution. We, the United States, used to do our part. We were part of that. We were — and, you know, that’s — you know, “send me your huddled masses.” Come on. And so I would, if you had a refugee bill by itself — I’m not suggesting that — but I would — there’s things that I would deal by itself, but not at the expense of saying, “I’m never going to do the other.” There is a reasonable path to citizenship. And it shows up — one of the reasons why we have been able to compete with the rest of the world so well is most of our major competitors are xenophobic. You remember quite — I remember you questioned me when I came back from China. And I said, “I predict, within less than a year, they’re going to end their One China policy.” And I got clobbered by — saying — because they said Biden didn’t talk about the fact that — how immoral it was. And it was when we were running against a Republican ticket, led by Mitt Romney — a fine guy. Yes, for two hours. We must speak up for human rights. It’s who we are. We can’t — my comment to him was — and I know him well, and he knows me well. We’re — a two-hour conversation. I talked about this, too. And that’s not so much refugee, but I talked about — I said — look, you know, Chinese leaders — if you know anything about Chinese history, it has always been — the time when China has been victimized by the outer world is when they haven’t been unified at home. So the central — to vastly overstate it — the central principle of Xi Jinping is that there must be a united, tightly controlled China. And he uses his rationale for the things he does based on that. I point out to him: No American President can be sustained as a President if he doesn’t reflect the values of the United States. And so the idea I’m not going to speak out against what he’s doing in Hong Kong, what he’s doing with the Uyghurs in western mountains of China and Taiwan, trying to end the One China policy by making it forceful — I said — and by the — he said he — he gets it. Culturally, there are different norms that each country and they — their leaders — are expected to follow. But my point was that when I came back from meeting with him and traveling 17,000 miles with him when I was vice president and he was the vice president — that’s how I got to know him so well, at the request of President Hu — not a joke — his predecessor, President Hu — and President Obama wanted us to get to know one another because he was going to be the president. And I came back and said they’re going to end their One China — their one child policy, because they’re so xenophobic, they won’t let anybody else in, and more people are retired than working. How can they sustain economic growth when more people are retired? Well, there will be repercussions for China, and he knows that. What I’m doing is making clear that we, in fact, are going to continue to reassert our role as spokespersons for human rights at the U.N. and other — other agencies that have an impact on their attitude. China is trying very hard to become the world leader and to get that moniker. And to be able to do that, they have to gain the confidence of other countries. And as long as they’re engaged in activity that is contrary to basic human rights, it’s going to be hard for them to do that. But it’s much more complicated than that. I’m — I shouldn’t have tried to talk China policy in 10 minutes on television here. Good evening. Me too. You think I’m kidding. I will not make that happen. It depends on whether or not you go to a private university or public university. It depends on the idea that I say to a community, “I’m going to forgive the debt…” — the billions of dollars in debt for people who have gone to Harvard and Yale and Penn and schools my children — I went to a great school. I went to a state school. But is that going to be forgiven, rather than use that money to provide for early education for young children who are — come from disadvantaged circumstances? But here’s what I think: I think everyone — and I’ve been proposing this for four years — everyone should be able to go to community college for free. For free. That’s — that costs $9 billion, and we should pay for it. And the tax policies we have now — we should be able to pay for you. We spend almost that money as a break for people who own race horses. And I think any family making under $125,000 whose kids go to a state university they get into, that should be free as well. And the thing I do in terms of student debt that’s accumulated is provide for changing the existing system now for debt forgiveness if you engage in volunteer activity. For example, if you were — if you’re teaching school, after five years, you — you would have $50,000 of your debt forgiven. If you worked in a battered women’s shelter, if you worked — and so on. So you’ll be able to forgive debt. Thirdly, I’m going to change the position that we have now to allow for debt forgiveness — because it’s so hard to calculate — whereby you can now, depending on how much you make and what program you sought, you can work off that debt by the activity you have, and you cannot be charged more than X percent of your take-home pay so that it doesn’t affect your ability to buy a car, own a home, et cetera. Each of my children graduated from school. I mortgaged the house. I was listed as the poorest man in Congress for — not a joke — for over 30 years. And — but I was able to bo- — I bought a home I spent a lot of time working on, and I was able to sell it for some profit. But my — my oldest son graduated, after undergraduate and graduate school, with $136,000 in debt after working 40 — I mean, excuse me, 30 hours a week during school. My other son, who went to Georgetown and Yale Law School, graduated $142,000 in debt, and he worked for a parking service in — down in Washington. My daughter went to Tulane University and then got a masters at Penn. She graduated $103,000 in debt. So I don’t think anybody should have to pay for that, but I do think you should be able to work it off. My daughter is a social worker. My other son became a — ran the World Food Program USA, and so on. They — they didn’t qualify. But my point is: I understand the impact of the debt, and it can be debilitating. And I think there is a whole question about what universities are doing. They don’t need more skyboxes. What they need is more money invested in — in making — so that’s why I provide, for example, $80 billion — $70 billion over 10 years for HBCUs and other minority-serving universities, because they don’t have the laboratories to be able to bring in those government contracts that can train people in cybersecurity or other future endeavors that pay well. But I do think that, in this moment of economic pain and strain, that we should be eliminating interest on the debts that are accumulated, number one. And number two, I’m prepared to write off a $10,000 debt, but not 50. Because I don’t think I have the authority to do it by signing the pen. I get up in the morning, look at Jill, and say, “Where the hell are we?” No, it’s — look, it’s — you know, I’ve only been President four weeks. And sometimes — because things are moving so fast, not because of burden — it feels like four years. It’s not because of the burden; it’s because there’s so much happening that you focus on. You’re constantly focusing on one problem or opportunity, one right — ad seriatum. But what happens is that it’s — what I didn’t realize: I had been in the Oval Office a hundred times, as Vice President — or more than that, every morning, for the initial meetings — but I had never been up in the Residence. And one of the things that — I don’t know about you all, but I was raised in the way that you didn’t look for anybody to wait on you. And it’s — we’re — I find myself extremely self-conscious. There are wonderful people who work at the White House. But someone, you know, standing there and, you know, making sure — hands me my suitcoat or — I’d only been upstairs in the — in the Yellow Room. You know, the — the Oval upstairs. No. And — but it’s — but, look, the people down there are wonderful. And I find that, you know — like, my dad — you’ve heard me say this before — my dad used to say, “Everybody…” — “Everybody is entitled to be treated with respect.” And it’s interesting how decent and incredible these folks are. You know, I don’t know what I ever expected it to be. I — it is different in that — I’ll get in trouble in here. I said when I was running, I wanted to be President not to live in the White House but to be able to make the decisions about the future of the country. And so living in the White House, as you’ve heard other presidents who have been extremely flattered to live there, has — it’s a little like a gilded cage in terms of being able to walk outside and do things. The Vice President’s residence was totally different. You’re on 80 acres, overlooking the rest of the city. And you can walk out, and there’s a swimming pool. You can walk off a porch in the summer and jump in a pool, and — and, you know, go into work. You can ride a bicycle around and never leave the property and work out. And you can — but the White House is very different. And I feel a sense of — I must tell you, a sense of history about it. Jon Meacham, who you know, and several other presidential historians, helped me with my — I asked my brother, who’s good at this, to set up the Oval Office for me, because it all happens within two hours, you know? Literally. They move everything out and move something. And it was interesting to hear these historians talk about what — what other presidents have gone through in the moments, and who were the people who stepped up to the ball, and who’s the people who didn’t. And what you realize is the most consequential thing for me is — although I’ve known this watching seven presidents who I got to know fairly well — is I always, in the past, looked at the presidency in the terms of Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt and George Washington and how can — . They’re super human. But I had to remind myself, they’re really fine men that I knew well — the last seven presidents — and at least there are people who I knew well enough to know that I play on the same team with. So it took away the sense of, “This is — my God, you know, I’m not Abraham Lincoln. I’m not Franklin Roosevelt. How do I deal with these problems?” Yes, I have. No, I don’t. They’re private conversations. But — and, by the way, all of them have, with one exception, picked up the phone and called me as well. No, but, look, it’s a — it’s the greatest honor I think an American can be given, from my perspective. And I literally pray that I have the capacity to do for the country what you all deserve need be done. But one thing I learned after eight years with Barack is, no matter how consequential the decision — I got to be the last person in the room with him, literally, on every decision — I can make a recommendation, but I walked out of the room, and it was all him, man. Nobody else. The buck stops there. And that’s where you pray for making sure that you’re looking at the impact on the country and a little bit of good luck at the judgment you’re making. Thank you. Hello, everybody. Thanks for coming in. I’m fortunate to have today a group of leading governors and mayors of both political parties to talk about the COVID plan that we’ve put forward, and their needs and their ideas and their recommendations on how to proceed. And the American Rescue Plan is — has multiple pieces. The most important piece, in my view, is making sure we give them enough capacity to deal with the virus in their states and how we’re going to do that. But equally consequential is the need to help the states economically, in terms of everything from unemployment to being able to make sure that they’re able to get kids back in schools and what role the federal government should play in helping getting that done. And, you know, if — these folks are all on the frontlines. They’ve been dealing with this crisis from day one. It’s — I’m not making a political statement; it just it’s taken a while to adjust. They’ve been left on their own, in many cases. I think some have found what I found when I got here: that what we thought was available, in terms of everything from vaccine to vaccinators, was not the case. So I thank them for the work they did in their cities and their states in order to respond to the crisis. But I think it’s — and I’ve said it plainly when I was running and as President — that I think the federal government has a major role to play here. But these are the folks that are on the ground dealing with it every single solitary day. And they see the pain, and they see the successes when they occur. And what I really want to know about is what should that — the recovery plan — should we have more or less of anything in it; what do they think they need most; how to proceed. Because as I’ve said before, you know, governors and mayors — that’s a real job. I was a senator for years. I got in a train every day and came to Washington, D.C., and I’d get asked questions by the conductors and the shoeshine guys and the ticket masters and — but every single day, these folks are home. Every single day, they’re meeting with their constituents. We’re down here in Washington, and we meet with them. I don’t mean to belittle them at all, but it’s not the same as being on the ground. And so whenever I want to know what’s really happening, I want to talk — and I’m not being solicitous — to governors and mayors. And so thank you for being here. And that’s what we’re going to be doing today. Thank you all. Good afternoon, folks. I had a little discussion with my friends behind me, Dr. Collins and Dr. Fauci, about whether or not I should take my mask off. And the truth is, although we’re more than 10 feet away, I think it’s important that I not. It’s critically important the message — and I realize I’m speaking to a vast majority — at least, I hope I am — of the folks out here at NIH. You know that wearing this mask through the next year here can save lives — a significant numbers of lives. And so I apologize if you don’t hear me as clearly as you — maybe you should. I’d like to start off by thanking Dr. Collins and Dr. Fauci for hosting me today. I spent a lot of time working with Dr. Collins on the Cancer Institute matters. And I said he’s the first person I called to ask if he’d stay. But then I was reminded: I called Dr. Fauci before I got elected and said, “Would you stay if I came?” So thank you both for staying. Our nation is fortunate to have both of you in this — in these critical roles. And that goes for the world-class doctors, scientists, researchers here at the NIH. And I just toured the Vaccine Research Center with Dr. Collins and Dr. Fauci and Dr. Graham and Dr. Corbett. It’s incredible. It’s a place to go where you — our top minds spend years researching vaccines and treatments for all kinds of viruses, and partnering with academia and industry to prepare for the next one, because there will be others: HIV, Influenza, SARS, MERS, West Nile, Zika, Ebola. And today, COVID-19. To all — to all of you, your work made possible the remarkably rapid development of COVID-19 vaccines we have today. It’s incredible. Initially, people were talking years, if not decades, before we’d have a vaccine. On behalf of a grateful nation — and I don’t say that lightly — on behalf of a grateful nation, I want to thank you and your families for your work and your sacrifice, for there is no doubt your families sacrificed a great deal for the endless hours you put in to save the rest of us. And I know it wasn’t easy. The devastation of this pandemic — the loss of life and livelihoods — hasn’t spared the scientific community: labs closed, research delayed, careers disrupted, especially for those in training. Yet with every moment of despair in this past year, you and all the heroes and heroines on the frontlines of the — and the frontiers of this pandemic remind us who we are. We are America. We never give up. We never give in. We give back, and we follow the science and find the answers. That’s what all of you do here. That’s what we’ve seen all across the country. The scientific community repurposed labs to work on COVID-19; developed therapeutics, new diagnostics technologies, and vaccines in record time. And you’re highlighting lessons learned on the importance of pandemic preparedness, public-private partnerships, real-time data sharing, and most of all, speed and efficiency without compromising science and good conscience. Look, you’re an incredible group of people. I’ve been out here many times trying to help — trying to help my son who passed away with cancer. You’re an incredible, incredible group of people. And that’s not hyperbole. We still — what we know is we still have a long way to go. It’s no secret that the vaccination program was in much worse shape than my team and I anticipated. We were under the impression, I’m told, that we had a lot more resources than we did when we came into office. We’ve only been here three weeks, but we’ve learned a great deal in those three weeks. While scientists did their job in discovering vaccines in record time, my predecessor — I’ll be very blunt about it — did not do his job in getting ready for the massive challenge of vaccinating hundreds of millions of Americans. He didn’t order enough vaccines. He didn’t mobilize enough people to administer the shots. He didn’t set up federal vaccine centers where eligible people could go and get their shots. When I became President three weeks ago, America had no plan to vaccinate most of the country. It was a big mess. It’s going to take time to fix, to be blunt with you. I promised, when I did my inaugural address, that I’d always be straight with you — give it to you straight from the shoulder: I will not walk away when we make a mistake; I’ll acknowledge it and tell you the truth. We started on day one. We won’t have everything fixed for a while, but we’re going to fix it. First, the vaccine. I know people want confidence that it’s safe. Well, listen to Dr. Fauci. I did. I got my shots. My wife Jill did. Kamala did, and her husband Doug did. So Dr. Fauci and Dr. Collins got it also. It’s safe. And we need more people to get vaccinated to beat this pandemic. That’s why, in the first three weeks that I’ve been in office, we’ve increased the supply of weekly vaccine shipments to the states by almost 30 percent. That means millions more Americans will get vaccinated in February than the previous administration was on track to do. But that’s just the start. We bought more vaccines. Two weeks ago, I directed Jeff Zients, who’s here with me — my COVID-19 Response Coordinator — to work with the Department of Health and Human Services to purchase more vaccines. Just this afternoon, we signed the final contracts for 100 million more Moderna and 100 million more Pfizer vaccines. And we’re also able to move up the delivery dates with an additional 200 million vaccines to the end of July — faster than we expected. And in further good news, both companies agreed — and we’re now contractually obligated — to expedite delivery of 100 million doses, that were promised by the end of June, to deliver them by the end of May. That’s a month faster. That means lives will be saved. That means we’re now on track to have enough supply for 300 million Americans by the end of July. It may not sound like the urgent progress we need, but let’s be clear: When I took office, just three weeks ago, this country did not have a plan or enough vaccines, or people to vaccinate Americans — any — all Americans, at any time, in any point in 2021. Within three weeks, round-the-clock work with so many people — people standing behind me and in front of me — we’ve now purchased enough vaccine supply to vaccinate all Americans. And now we’re working to get those vaccines into the arms of millions of people. In just three weeks, you deployed over 1,000 federal staff to vaccination sites around the country. We’re helping give shots and set up and speed vaccination operations. To date, we’ve also provided $3 billion to 37 states and territories and tribes to bolster existing vaccination centers and create more of the centers to administer — where we administer the vaccine. For example, three days ago, Vice President Harris and I, we had a virtual tour of a federally supported vaccine center in a parking lot of the Arizona Cardinal Stadium in Glendale, Arizona. It’s open 24/7. Folks who are eligible can call by phone or sign up online for an appointment. They literally drive in, stay in their cars, get a shot, get a card, and schedule the next shot. On average, it’s about 30 minutes from start to finish. In just three weeks, the site has administered 160,000 doses, now averaging 8,000 vaccinations through the day and night. Look, it’s coordination between state and federal government, and the private sector partnership is essential. One of the nurses coordinating the effort in Arizona said the work was like administering — and I love this phrase, Doc — she said, “like administering a dose of hope.” Like administering a dose of hope. Let me say that — a dose of hope. We’re going to get those doses of hope out at new and large-scale vaccination centers that were set up by the federal government. During the Super Bowl, we got a call from the NFL. The commissioner of football, Goodell, said we could have access to all 30 of the NFL stadiums for mass vaccination sites. We just announced we’ve worked with the governors to set up these new federally run sites in California, New York, Texas, with many more to come. We’re going to target communities that have been the hardest hit, and it will be staffed by our military; the Federal Emergency Management Association [Agency] — FEMA — same people who respond to hurricanes and storms, and the like; and other federal experts at the Department of Health and Human Services; and the Department of Agriculture to get vaccinators to make sure it gets in people’s arms. When I got to office, there was no federal plan — none — to ship vaccines directly to local pharmacies. So, folks — folks who are allowed to get vaccination under the state rules, as the allocation of who gets in line, are allowed to get one, can schedule an appointment now and get COVID-19 vaccine shots like they would a flu shot from their pharmacy. And we’ll start today — that program. And for folks who can’t get to a pharmacy, we’re deploying mobile units and sending vaccinat- — vaccines to community health centers — federally run community health centers — to take care of the poorest of the poor, that reach the hardest-hit in those underserved areas in the country — black, Latino, Native American, and rural communities. This is an important piece to ensure racial equity remains at the center of our COVID-19 response, which is something, I know, Dr. Collins and Dr. Fauci are focused on as well. Another point of progress is we’re deploying more vaccinators. We’re now allowing retired doctors and nurses to come back and administer shots. We’re deploying federal vaccinators, and over the last three weeks, we put hundreds of new vaccinators in the field and are lining up thousands more. These include medical personnel from our Commissioned Corps at the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as personnel from FEMA, the Defense Department, and more departments to come. All told, we’re on track to surpass the goal I set on day one. When I was sworn in, I indicat- — just before I was sworn in, I indicated that my hope was to administer 100 million shots in the first 100 days of our term. I believe we’ll not only reach that, but we’ll break that. But like I said before, that’s just the floor. That’s just the floor. Our end goal is beating COVID-19. Which brings us to the challenge that remains. We remain in the teeth of this pandemic. January of 2021 was the deadliest month we’ve had. We lost over 100,000 — 100,000 of our fellow citizens. We’re on track to cross 500,000 dead Americans this next month. The new strains emerging create immense challenges, and masking is still the easiest thing to do to save lives. But we need everyone to mask up. And, by the way, I know it’s a pain in the neck, but it’s a patriotic responsibility. We’re in the middle of a war with this virus. It’s a patriotic responsibility — not only if you care about your family, if you care about your fellow Americans. Do you realize more people have died in the last 12 months — in the last 12 months than died in all four years in World War Two? All four years. That’s why I asked what the full extent of my authority as President of the United States could be. I signed an executive order that required masking on all federal property, on modes of travel like planes, trains, and buses across interstate commerce. And I’ve been calling on governors — Republican and Democrat — and mayors — Republican and Democrat — and local officials to institute mask mandates within their jurisdictions. We need everyone to do their part for themselves, their loved ones, and yes, for their country. Mask up, America. Mask up. And to really get ahead of this pandemic instead of chasing it, we need Congress to pass my American Rescue Plan. And I’m grateful that the Senate and the House are moving quickly. And my hope is that we’ll get Republicans, as well as Democrats, to support us. But we can’t wait. People are dying every minute from this pandemic. And we’re suffering a profound economic crisis that the pandemic has created. Every major economist in the country — left, right, and center — says we can’t go big enough here. And if we want to get our economy back in shape, we’ve got to move quickly. How many of you out there don’t have enough food to eat? How many of you out there are worried whether you can pay next month’s rent or pay your mortgage? How many of you out there have a child at home because a school is not open and you have to make the difficult choice of staying home with your child or going to work if you have a job? This is not who we are. In the United States of America, we take care of our own. And job number one of the American Rescue Plan is fighting the pandemic. It puts $160 billion into our national COVID strategy, which includes more money for testing and tracing, manufacturing and distribution, and setting up vaccination sites: everything that’s needed to get vaccines into people’s arms. The American Rescue Plan also includes $4 billion to build new manufacturing plants. So we are ready to manufacture vaccines we don’t — and we don’t have to wait. You know, there’s simply nothing more important than getting the resources we need to vaccinate people in this country as quickly as possible — as quickly as possible. We’re not going to get our economy back in shape and millions of people back to work until we beat this virus. As I said, everyone from Moody’s on Wall Street to a whole range of other think tanks indicates that if we do this plan, we’ll get to full employment within two years. We’ll be in a situation where we actually grow the economy, creating millions of jobs immediately, and put us in a position where we are going to have the GDP grow at a higher rate than under — if we don’t do this. We’re in a national emergency. I want to close with this: We’re in a national emergency. And this will be one of the most difficult operational challenges we have ever undertaken as a nation. It’s going to take time. We’re going to face setbacks along the way. And I promise you, when we do, I’ll just own up to it and say what they are. But we have to stay vigilant. We have to stay focused. And for God’s sakes, we have to remember who we are: We are the United States of America. We can do this. We have the resources. We just have to choose to use them. We have to do what all of you do here at NIH and across the scientific community: Keep the faith with purpose and vision. And with every dose of hope we have, folks, remember, like I said, this is America. We have never, never, never failed. We’ve decided to stand together and act together. That’s who we are. That’s not chauvinism; that’s just a fact. We’ve never failed when we stood together. If there’s ever a time we need to stand together, it’s now. May God bless you all. And may God bless everyone here at NIH — all the doctors, scientists, and researchers fighting this pandemic and saving lives. And God protect our troops. Thank you very, very much. You’re the best America has to offer here at NIH. Thank you, thank you from the bottom of my heart. Well, we’re in a position now where we’re just — in talking with Jeff — we’ve been pushing really, really hard with the manufacturing to significantly increase in the timeframe. Jeff, when will it be by? By June, we’ll have — how much will we have? Yeah. No, I — I realize that. And one of the things that — you know, it’s amazing how quickly things change in terms of people’s perceptions, mine — mine included. I know just a little tiny bit about this because I worked with that guy on cancer issues for a long, long while, Cancer Institute. Anyway — But what I didn’t realize was just how much of the vaccine we’re going to have to actually get produced. And it’s one thing to have the vaccine; it’s another thing to have vaccinators to put it into people’s arms. And it’s really turned out to be a gigantic logistical issue for us. And I can say — I don’t mean it as a criticism, just an observation — when we — we’ve been in office now three years — no, three weeks. But what happened is that we were led to — if you ever hear anybody talking about transitions between pres- — between presidents, it’s really important, because we didn’t have any access to the transition. And you know, Dr. Fauci, about it. And so we thought, and we were led to believe, there was a lot more vaccine available than there was. And when I said “in the first hundred days” I guaranteed — I promised that we would get 100 million shots in people’s arms, everybody said, “No, that’s — you can’t do that.” It’s amazing — now I’m getting, “Why can’t you get more?” Now we’re getting a lot more on average, but it could be significantly more. But to get to the place where — and these guys legitimately always ask me — is: “When will we have enough vaccine to have that 300-plus million people?” And even though we’ve increased by close to 600 million — promises of the vaccine — we’re going to be in a position where it’s going to be — it’s not going to be by the end of the summer. And so all the Americans who are looking for it — and that’s why I keep listening to you talking about when we could theoretically reach enough of a saturation of access that we slow down the spread. And so, this is the — it’s an ama- — and, by the way, every department is jumping in. The Defense Department over there, they jumped right in like they did with dealing with Ebola before, in Africa. They’re probably going to have, literally, over a hundred thou- — I mean, excuse me, 10,000 vaccinators. They’re picking people up all over, out of retirement. You never know. Well, we talked about the variants, and I’ll — rather than Joe Biden, the lawyer, explain the variants — I think I understand it — but I think it’s important that, Doctor, you talk about the variants and what we’re anticipating and what we think the situation is going to be. No, I’m not. I think — look, these folks have been absolutely amazing. What I was upset with is not having all the facts that were available to the last outfit, that we did not know. So we were under the distinct impression there was significantly more vaccine available to begin to be distributed; that it was a distribution problem — which it is and was, but that wasn’t the main problem; it was having enough. And then getting — you know, there’s a big difference — the logistical difference between having a vaccine sent to the States in bulk and refrigerated, and having vaccinators with the paraphernalia to put it into a vial and stick it in someone’s arm — is a very different and logistical problem — difficult problem. So there’s the vaccine. There is the access to the vaccine, in terms of how you get it where it has to be. That is a giant logistical issue, and we’re solving that now. For example, we are, as of — was it today, Jeff? We’re doing — we’re making sure that all these federal systems, community — — community health centers that are federally run — we are getting them — what day are we getting — Starting next week, they’ll get — And the pharmacies start today. We thought, by listening — at least my team did — between the time we were elected and the time somebody recognized we were elected, that we thought that it was well underway; that the drugstores were beginning — you know, all the places — the Walmarts of the world — were ready. But it turned out they weren’t. And so we — it’s been a hell of a learning process. But you have done an enormous, enor- — all — every other scientist I’ve talked to across the board said the idea that it would end in less than a year — you’d come up with a vaccine — Folks, thanks for coming in. I’m going to be very brief. We’re going to get to it. We want to talk about infrastructure, and this committee is central to everything that’s going to happen. I’ve been around long enough — and Tom and Jim and all of us — that — it used to be that infrastructure wasn’t a Democrat or Republican issue. There are not many Republican or Democratic roads and bridges, and so on. So we’re going to talk about infrastructure. And I want to hear what’s on the minds of my colleagues here, and we’re going to see what we can put together. There’s a number of things that are out there that the American people are looking at us to step up. Again, it’s not — I really, honest to God, never have thought of the — of infrastructure as being a partisan issue. It’s about — I mean, a lot of bridges in West Virginia, a lot of — a lot of dangerous spots along Route 9, in terms of Cancer Alley. A lot of places where we’re having problems all across the country. Well, that’s true. That’s true. And it’s named after Bill Roth. That’s right. And I’ll tell you what — and Tom climbs up all the time. But all kidding aside, there’s — there’s a lot we have to do. And I could think of no better group of people to start off with to try to see if we can come to some kind of generic consensus about how to begin. They have a lot of jurisdiction over a significant portion of infrastructure. Last night, I was on the phone for two straight hours with Xi Jinping. And you all know as well as I do, these folks — and it was a good conversation. I know him well. We spent a lot of time together over the years I was Vice President. And — but, you know, they’re going to — if we don’t get moving, they’re going to eat our lunch. They have major, major new initiatives on rail. And they already have rail that goes 225 miles an hour with ease. They’re working — they’re working very hard to do what I think we’re going to have to do. And I think the automobile industry is already there and so is labor. They’re going to — they’re working very hard to try to move in a position where they end up being the source of a — of a new way in which to power automobiles, which would — they’re going to invest a lot of money. They’re investing billions of dollars and dealing with a whole range of issues that relate to transportation, the environment, and a whole range of other things. So we just have to step up. And so what I’d like to — I’m going to talk to these folks about, which is the key committee, is how we begin this. I’ve laid out what I think I have to do — we should be doing. And they have a plan, as well, within their jurisdiction. But they’re also very, very competent senators who know a lot more than beyond their jurisdiction about the things they need. So I’m looking for a wholesome conversation or a fulsome conversation. So thank you all for coming in. I did not — I’m sorry, what did you say? I told you, what I’m — I’m focused on — my job is to deal with the promises I made. And we all know we have to move on. Today, it’s about jobs and infrastructure. I, like other Americans, watched the news. I didn’t watch any of the hearing live because I was going straight through, last night, until a little after nine. But I watched some this morning. I think the Senate has a very important job to complete. And I think — my guess is some minds may have been changed, but I don’t know. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Secretary, thank you. And good afternoon to everyone. I want to thank Secretary Austin for welcoming the Vice President and me to the Pentagon today. It’s good to be back. Before I begin, I have some welcome news that the Saudi government has released a prominent human rights activist, Loujain al-Hathlou — -loul — excuse me, l-o-u-l — from prison. She’s a powerful advocate women’s rights, and releasing her was the right thing to do. It’s been a busy day. Earlier, I announced steps we’ve taken to impose costs on those responsible for the military coup in Burma. And I’ve just concluded a briefing with the civilian and military leadership where I laid out my national security priorities. And I want to share the message directly with the Department of Defense staff all around the world. Because each of you — each of you — whether you’re newly enlisted, a career officer, a non-commissioned officer, or a civilian policy expert, you’re essential to how we project our strength around the world, defend America’s interests, and advance American leadership in the world. So often, our Armed Forces and the Department of Defense staff are how the rest of the world encounters America. And you all know as well as anyone that our country is safer and stronger when we lead not just with the example of our power, but with the power of our example. As your Commander-in-Chief, I will never hesitate to use force to defend the vital interests of the American people and our allies around the world when necessary. The central, indispensable mission of the Department of Defense is to deter aggression from our enemies and, if required, to fight and win wars to keep America safe. But I believe force should be a tool of last resort, not first. I understand the full weight of what it means to ask young, proud Americans to stand in the breach. As was referenced by the Secretary, my son Beau served in Iraq for a year. I’m the first President in 40 years, I’m told, who had a son or daughter who served in a warzone. So I know what it’s like. Being Commander-in-Chief is an enormous responsibility and one that I will never take lightly or easily. I will work with Secretary Austin and leaders around the world to bring a responsible end — a responsible end to wars that have dragged on for far too long, while continuing to ensure that terrorist threats cannot endanger the security of the American people. I also know that you are essential to the work of our diplomacy — not only as the ultimate guarantor of our security, but as diplomats yourselves. I got to know Secretary Austin when he was serving as commander of U.S. Forces in Iraq. It wasn’t just his excellent military leadership the many times I met him there, and his strategy; he was a consummate diplomat as well. He worked closely with our ambassador to build relationships with both civilian and military leaders of our coalition partners. Because we are better able to project our power when we’re amplifying our strength through our alliances, it was so important. There is no aspect of our agenda of the 21st century leadership where the women and men of the Defense Department do not have a role — whether it’s helping curb the pandemic here at home and around the world; or addressing the real threats of climate change that already is costing us billions in impacts on our bases, on our national security; or being part of an ongoing fight for racial justice. You are essential to how we must rethink and reprioritize our security to meet the challenges of this century, not the last. We need to take on the dangers and opportunities of emerging technologies, enhance our capabilities in cyberspace, ensure that we are positioned to lead in a new era of competition, from deep sea to outer space. And we need to meet the growing challenges posed by China to keep the peace and defend our interests in the Indo-Pacific and globally. Today, I was briefed on a new DOD-wide China task force that Secretary Austin is standing up to look at our strategy and operational concepts, technology, and force posture, and so much more. The task force will work quickly, drawing on civilian and military experts across the Department, to provide, within the next few months, recommendations to Senator [Secretary] Austin on key priorities and decision points so that we can chart a strong path forward on China-related matters. It will require a whole-of-government effort, bipartisan cooperation in Congress, and strong alliances and partnerships. That’s how we’ll meet the China challenge and ensure the American people win the competition of the future. You know, to the incredible individuals who serve in our Armed Forces: You are unquestionably part of the finest fighting force in the history of the world. You’re warriors. The work you do each and every day is vital to ensuring the American people — your families, friends, and loved ones — are able to live in peace and security and growing prosperity. And for those of you who raise your hands and sign up to wear the uniform of the United States: We owe you an incredible debt. I’ve said for many years, less than one percent of Americans do what you do: put yourself on the line for the rest of the 99 percent of the Americans you represent. The 99 percent of us owe you. We owe it to you to keep the faith with our sacred obligation to properly prepare and equip you when we send you into harm’s way, and to care for you and your families, both while you are deployed and after you return home. You’re incredible heroes and incredible patriots. I will never, ever dishonest you — dishonor you. I will never disrespect you. I will never politicize the work you do. That goes for our civilian professionals as well as the career military. As I’ve said, this is personal for me. The Biden family is a military family. We learned firsthand some of what your loved ones experienced when Beau was deployed to Iraq for a year with his unit in the Delaware National Guard. We dealt with the stress of his absence and the daily joys — from the daily joys of life. And we worried constantly about his safe return. We felt overwhelming pride in his courage and his patriotism. You are all the best our country has to offer. You live by a creed of selfless sacrifice. And for many of you, the journey to service has not been easy. February is Black History Month, as the Vice President pointed out. Before we leave today, Vice President Harris and I are going to visit the hall honoring the long history of black Americans fighting for this country, even when their contributions were not always recognized or honored appropriately. But those contributions have nevertheless helped push our country toward greater equality. From the bravery of the free and enslaved descendants of Africans who fought with the colonial forces in our revolution; to the black regiments that joined to fight for the Union and for their own freedom in the Civil War; to the Buffalo soldiers, including Henry O. Flipper, the first African American graduate of West Point; and Cathay Williams, the first African American woman — Cathay — who enlisted in the United States Army. Imagine the incredible love it must have taken for the proud Tuskegee Airmen to fly more than 15,000 sorties in battle, when their own freedom was not fully realized in their own country. Imagine the determination of Roscoe Robinson, who started at West Point one year before Harry Truman issued the order to officially desegregate the Armed Forces, and who rose to become the first African American four-star general. Imagine the bravery of the 22 African Americans awarded the Medal of Honor for their service in the Vietnam War while struggling for civil rights at home was continuing. It’s all part of a long history of barrier-breaking service. Right now, more than 40 percent of our active-duty forces are people of color. And it’s long past time that the full diversity and full strength of our force is reflected at every level of this Department, including our Secretary of Defense. This organization thrives and succeeds because of our people. So the final point I’d like to make today is to give you my personal commitment that this administration — from myself and the Vice President Harris to Secretary Austin on down — is dedicated to ensuring that every single person is treated with dignity and respect. That’s why we moved so quickly to overturn the discriminary — discriminatory ban on transgender service, and why General Austin’s first memo was a directive to take sexual assault in the military seriously. Every single person, no matter their gender identity, sexual orientation, race, or religious background, deserves to feel safe in the ranks and to have their contributions valued. It’s on all of us to stand up, to speak out when you see someone being abused. This is an organization that’s defined American — excuse me, defeated American enemies on land, sea, and air, and been defined by the way we treat others. So I know this is not beyond us, not if each of us makes this a priority as well. So, thank you for welcoming us, Secretary Austin. It’s good to be back in the Pentagon. I wish I could meet more of you in person today, but I look forward to spending more time with you in all the places you serve around the world. I know this is the honor of my lifetime. The honor of my lifetime is to serve as your Commander-in-Chief. Thank you for what you do for this country. May God bless you and protect you, and may God protect our troops deployed around the world, every single one of you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you for being here on short notice. I’m going to be very brief, but I — because the Vice President and I are heading over the Pentagon for an extensive briefing and to make some comments, as we did at the State Department. So I’m going to be going from here to there, and you’ll get me there as well. I want to say good afternoon, everyone. I wanted to give you an update on the latest regarding our response to the military coup in Burma. As you know, the assault on Burma’s transition to democracy remains an issue of deep bipartisan concern. We’ve consulted at length, for example, with Senator McConnell, who’s had a very keen interest in this, and his team. And we welcomed their helpful insights. We’ve also been in close contact with our allies and partners around the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific region, driving vigorous diplomatic outreach to help coordinate an international response to what happened. A strong and unified message emerging from the United States has been essential, in our view, to encouraging other countries to join us in pressing for an immediate return to democracy. Last week, the United States helped bring together the U.N. Security Council, which issued a strong statement in support of Burmese democracy. And this week, we will use our renewed engagement on the Human Rights Council to strengthen the world’s commitment to human rights in Burma. Today, I again call on the Burmese military to immediately release the democratic political leaders and activists and — that they’re now detaining, including Aung San Suu Kyi. And she is — and also Win Myint, the President. The military must relinquish the power it seized and demonstrate respect for the will of the people of Burma as expressed in their November 8th election. So today, I’m announcing a series — a series of actions that we’re taking to begin imposing consequences on the leaders of the coup. The U.S. government is taking steps to prevent the generals from improperly having access to the $1 billion in Burmese government funds held in the United States. And today, I’ve approved a new executive order — — excuse me — a new executive order enabling us to immediately sanction the military leaders who directed the coup, their business interests, as well as close family members. We will identify a first round of targets this week. And we’re also going to impose strong export controls. And we’re freezing U.S. assets that benefit the Burmese government, while maintaining our support for healthcare, civil society groups, and other areas that benefit the people of Burma directly. And, finally, as protests grow, violence against those asserting their democratic rights is unacceptable, and we’re going to keep calling it out. The people of Burma are making their voices heard. And the world is watching. We’ll be ready to impose additional measures, and we’ll continue to work with our international partners to urge other nations to join us in these efforts. So I thank you all. I wanted to have that statement before I got in the vehicle to go out to the Pentagon. And I’m sure I’ll see some of you at the Pentagon. Thanks for coming over on such short notice. Thank you. Hello, folks. Thanks for coming in. I’ve invited in some of the leading business people in America to come in and talk about the state of the economy, our recovery package. We’re going to talk a little bit, God willing, about infrastructure down the road, and also about the — a little about the minimum wage. But I want to thank each of them for being here and participating. I think they’re — as I’ve said before — you’ve heard me say it to labor groups and others as well — that the American people are hurting. There’s a lot of people who are in real, real trouble. A lot of people going to bed at night, staring at the ceiling wondering whether they’re going to be in that apartment the next day, or if they’re going to be evicted, or if they’re going to keep their mortgage payment up, if they’re going to have any health insurance. We got millions of people unemployed. As Secretary Yellen has pointed out, we have a scarring effect that may be going on and can get worse. We have kids not in school. There’s a whole range of issues, but I think they’re all soluble. I think they’re all within our capacity. As you know, I’ve met for a long time with my Republican colleagues. I’ve been exchanging correspondence with them and telephone calls, as well, to see if there’s any way we can follow up beyond where we are, and meeting with the members of the House and the Senate as well. And I think we’re — I think we’re in a position to think big and move big, and to move in a direction that can not only get the economy back on its feet, but we have to get people well before we get people on their feet. And we’ve focused a lot of the attention on making sure that we deal with the coronavirus, get it under control. As you know, you’ve been through it all in detail with me on what we’re doing on the coronavilus [sic] — virus and the funding mechanisms that exist within this package, as well as we have to deal at the same time with the — with the employment. We have to deal at the same time with business and growth of the economy. We can’t let one wait. We can’t get everybody well and then move on the economy. We have to move quickly on both. And I’m anxious to hear what these business leaders have to say about how they think I’m approaching this issue, we’re approaching this issue, and to see if we can find some common ground. I know I’ve found some common ground with some of my Republican friends and a lot of the Democrats as well, so I’m optimistic. So, thank you all for coming in. I appreciate it. I am not. Look, I told you before: I have a job. My job is to keep people — we’ve already lost over 450,000 people. We’re going to lose a whole lot more if we don’t act, and act decisively and quickly. A lot of people, as I said, are going — a lot of children are going to be hungry. A lot of families are food insecure. They’re in trouble. That’s my job. The Senate has their job; they’re about to begin it. I’m sure they’re going to conduct themselves well. And that’s all I’m going to have to say about impeachment. So, thank you very, very much. Appreciate it. Yes. Thanks, everybody. Doctor, let me ask you — this is Joe Biden. Let me ask you a question. Were you able to do this — would you be able to do this without federal help? The reason I ask it is, a lot of states originally said, “We’re fine. We don’t need any help. We’ll — just get us the vaccine, and we’ll be fine.” Talk to me practically about what it took to get it to this stage. Why did you decide on this site for the drive-thru? I got a call during the Super Bowl from the commissioner of football, and — offering us, the federal government, the 30 major stadiums. So I think they’re going to be coming to you to look at how you did it because you’re doing such a great job. One last question. Do you — I was pleased and a little surprised to hear that if a caretaker drove somebody, or if I assume a family member drove someone who qualifies to get the shot, they would also qualify as well. Is that correct? Well, one of the things you may recall — the Vice President and I announced about 15 days ago that we were going to try and get 100 million shots in 100 days into the people’s arms. We found out we didn’t quite have the supply of vaccine we thought initially. We’re all set now, but we’re exceeding that number. And so because of folks like you, who are dedicated — and I just want to — before I turn it over to the Vice President — she may have some questions — I just want to thank you for your dedication. You’re saving people’s lives, short term and long term. So thank you, thank you, thank you. I’m looking forward to meeting you one day. We lost you, Doc. You’re good. Doing a great job, Doc. Thank you. We’re really proud of you. No, I really mean it. Tell me about the number of volunteers. Are these pure volunteers? Do they get per diem or are they pure volunteers? And when someone comes through in a vehicle, do they have to demonstrate proof of eligibility or have they also been cleared before they get to that tent? Now, in Arizona, what is the age eligibility for coming through that tent? Right. And what do you hear from the folks coming through that get the vaccine — that actually get the shot in their arm? What are the kind of things you most often hear from them or your — your volunteers hear? Last question I have: How can we best support you and other frontline workers? Are you a freshman at the university? You look like a freshman. I’m going to turn it over to the Vice President. She’s got the tough questions. And you’re a — are you a nurse? Well, I know, having been a significant consumer of healthcare, I can tell — I know the Vice President knows this, when I say it: Doctors let you live; nurses make you want to live. If there’s any angels in Heaven, they’re all nurses, male and female. And that’s not an exaggeration. That’s the God’s truth. Thank you for all you do. Thank you. Okay. Keep it going. Okay. Yep. Well, thank you. Well, first of all, thank you. You’re doing one heck of a job. One of the things that when we started to try to figure out what we were going to do when we came into office, because there wasn’t much of a transition — we didn’t have — we weren’t given a lot of information. And some of the information we had turned out not to be accurate in terms of vaccine supplies. And — and we met virtually with all the governors, and the governors basically said, “Just send us the vaccine; we’ll take care of it.” And the fact is, I think they and everyone else vastly underestimated the logistical needs that go with having the vaccine — assuming you have enough vaccine. And so, one of the first things we did was we called in FEMA and also contacted every governor, General, and told them that we’ll pay for the National Guard, it won’t be their expense, because you guys are — and women are badly needed. And in addition to that, the Defense Department has allocated over 1,000 — they’re going to go up to 100,000 people who are going to be helping along — 10,000 people who are helping along the way. So I just want to thank you for the coordination. I mentioned this to Dr. Christ a little earlier, but the coordination is really — it really matters. And we’ve got people who know what they’re doing, starting with the Doc and you too, both with FEMA and — well, the National Guard. That that’s your business. You know how to get it done. And so — and you are — you are really doing it. I — I just think what you put together is amazing. Our hope is that we’re going to be able to not only get — keep the commitment to get 100 million shots in people’s arms by the first 100 days — I think we’ll get — we’ll exceed that considerably — but also to — we’ve now been able to go out and talk with — personally with the vaccine manufacturers. They’ve upped significantly the commitments to the amount of vaccine they’ll produce and when it’ll be produced. And so I — and things are beginning to click. People are beginning to feel that they can find their way to get the vaccine. And lastly, one of the most important things for us — and you mentioned what’s happening on the Navajo tribe; I’ve met with the leaders — is that it really — it really does matter that we have access to the people who are most in need but are — and most affected by the COVID crisis, dying at faster rates, getting sick at faster rates, and — but not being available, not being able to get into the — into the mix. And so, equity is a big thing, and I want to thank you all — all three of you — for engaging in that. But I don’t — we didn’t hear from — I’m going to turn this over to the Vice President. But, General, I hope we’re going to hear from you as well after the Vice President says something to — whatever she wants to say. Okay? General, how you doing? Better for seeing you, man. Well, you sure have it figured out at that spot, General. And thank you for all you’ve done, and thank you for what you do. And you probably have been deployed with your group several times in the last 10 years, so thank you for that as well. Madam Vice President. And, Dr. Christ, thank you for the — for the tour and to meet some of your frontline workers. I — you know, I’m sorry that we weren’t in a position that the governor could be with us today, but he’s been very, very cooperative and very helpful. He’s stepped up. And this is the kind of partnership between the federal and state governments that I think — and the private sector — to help us vaccinate more people more quickly, and to get ahead of this virus instead of behind it. And we’re optimistic that we have enough — we’ll have enough of the vaccine in the pipeline to be able to provide shots for over — including double shots for over 300 million people before we get through the summer. At least that’s our hope. And it includes getting vaccines to the pharmacies you pointed out to me earlier, Doc, and vaccination centers like the one you have there. And we’re going to need — if we need more vaccinators, we’ll send them, we’ll find them for you. So let us know. And again, I want to thank you very, very much for your leadership. I look forward to — I wish we were in a situation — it sounds — it’s counterintuitive — because of COVID, we can’t see you — come and see you, which we’d ordinarily be doing — getting on a plane and coming out and looking firsthand. But, you know, the fact is that you’re the reason why we’re going to beat this — this disease. And we will beat it. You know, big or small, we’re going to do whatever it takes to reach and surpass our goal of over 100 million in 100 days. And there’s a lot to do, and it’s going to take time. We’re going to face some setbacks along the way, including the complication of the strains that we’re seeing from South Africa and other places. But I know we can do it. We’ve never failed as a country when we’ve done things together. Never, ever, ever, ever fail when united. And you guys are the example of unity. So thank you, thank you, thank you. Madam Vice President. There’s no such thing as a red state or a blue state when it comes to COVID. There’s no such thing as Democrat or Republican — — when it comes to COVID. When we stand united, there’s not a damn thing we’ve been unable to do. And you’re the — you’re a perfect example of that. So thanks again. Stay safe. Stay safe. And thank you. Thank you for your patience. We had a very good but long meeting with the chairpersons of the House of Representatives in the Oval, and it went a little longer, but it went very well. Thank you all for being here. I’m accompanied by the Vice President and the Secretary of Treasury, Janet Yellen, and I want to talk today about our plan. And the January jobs numbers came out today. And while we are grateful for everyone who found work and is earning a paycheck, it is very clear our economy is still in trouble. We added just 6,000 private sector jobs in the country last month. Overall, we added 49,000 jobs. And this at a time when we have more than 10 million people out of work, 4 million people have been out of work for six months or longer, and 2.5 million women have been driven from the workforce. Fifteen million Americans are behind in their rental payments. Twenty-four million adults and twelve million children literally don’t have enough food to eat. These aren’t Democrats or Republicans — they’re Americans. And they’re suffering. And they’re suffering not because of anything they did. Through no fault of their own, they’re suffering. A once-in-a-century virus has decimated our economy, and it’s still wreaking havoc on our economy today. And so much of it is still about the virus. We’re still in the teeth of this pandemic. In fact, January was the single deadliest month of the whole pandemic. We lost nearly 100,000 lives. I know some in Congress think we’ve already done enough to deal with the crisis in the country. Others think that things are getting better and we can afford to sit back and either do a little or do nothing at all. That’s not what I see. I see enormous pain this country. A lot of folks out of work. A lot of folks going hungry, staring at the ceiling at night wondering, “What am I going to do tomorrow?” A lot of folks trying to figure out how to keep their jobs and take care of their children. A lot of folks reaching the breaking point. Suicides are up. Mental health needs are increasing. Violence against women and children is increasing. A lot of folks are losing hope. And I believe the American people are looking right now to their government for help, to do our job, to not to let them down. So I’m going to act, and I’m going to act fast. I’d like to be — I’d like to be doing it with the support of Republicans. I’ve met with Republicans. There’s some really fine people who want to get something done, but they’re just not willing to go as far as I think we have to go. I’ve told both Republicans and Democrats that’s my preference: to work together. But if I have to choose between getting help right now to Americans who are hurting so badly and getting bogged down in a lengthy negotiation or compromising on a bill that’s — that’s up to the crisis, that’s an easy choice. I’m going to help the American people who are hurting now. That’s why I’m so grateful to the House and Senate for moving so fast on the American Rescue Plan. Here’s what’s in that plan: First, it puts $160 billion into our national COVID-19 strategy, which includes more money for manufacturing, distribution, and setting up of vaccination sites — everything that’s needed to get vaccines into people’s arms. There is simply nothing more important than us getting the resources we need to vaccinate the people in this country as soon, as quickly as possible. So, job number one of the American Rescue Plan is vaccines. Vaccines. The second, the American Rescue Plan is going to keep the commitment of $2,000: $600 has already gone out; $1,400 checks to people who need it. This is money directly in people’s pockets. They need it. We need to target that money. So, folks making $300,000 don’t get any windfall. But if you’re a two — if you’re a two — if you’re a family that’s a two-wage earner, each of the parents — one making 30 grand and one making 40 or 50 — maybe that’s a little more than — well, yeah, they need the money, and they’re going to get it. And here’s what I won’t do: I’m not cutting the size of the checks. They’re going to be $1,400. Period. That’s what the American people were promised. And very quickly, here’s the rest of my plan: It has money for food and nutrition so that folks don’t go hungry. I think our Republican friends are going to support that. It extends unemployment insurance, which is going to run out on March 13th of this year, to the end of September of this year, because there is still going to be — we’re still going to have high unemployment. It helps small businesses, thousands of whom have had to go out of business. It has money to help folks pay their health insurance. It has rental assistance to keep people in their homes, rather than being thrown out in the street. It’s got money to help us open our schools safely. It has money for childcare, for paid leave. It gets needed resources to state and local governments to prevent layoffs of essential personnel — firefighters, nurses, folks that are schoolteachers, sanitation workers. It raises the minimum wage. It’s big, and it’s bold. And it’s a real answer to the crisis we’re in. And it’s one more thing. And I want to say it very clearly on this — be very clear on this point: It’s better economics. It not only addresses the immediate crisis we’re in, it’s better for the long-term economic health of our nation and our competitiveness. My plan creates more jobs, it creates more economic growth, and does more to make us competitive with the rest of the world than any other plan. Don’t take my word for it. Just look at what leading economists across the nation have said — and the world, and across the ocean have said. Wall Street investment firm, Moody’s, says if we pass the American Rescue Plan, it will lead to 4 million more jobs than otherwise would be created. The nonpartisan Brookings Institution has looked at the Rescue — American Rescue Plan and said the GDP of — will reach pre-pandemic projections by 2021, meaning we’ll have recovered by the end of 2021. And much sooner, by the way, than if we do nothing. Look, just this week, the Congressional Budget Office projected that if we don’t take action, it would take until the year 2025 to return to full employment. There’s also a growing chorus of top economists — right, center, and left — that say we should be less focused on the deficit and more focused on the investments we make, and can make now, in jobs, keeping families out of poverty, and preventing long-term economic damage to our nation. The simple truth is, if we make these investments now, with interest rates at historic lows, we’ll generate more growth, higher incomes, a stronger economy, and our nation’s finances will be in a stronger position as well. And the payoff won’t just be in jobs but in our global competitiveness as well — because we’ll be regaining our economic strength faster. So, the way I see it: The biggest risk is not going too big, if we go — it’s if we go too small. We’ve been here before. When this nation hit the Great Recession that Barack and I inherited in 2009, I was asked to lead the effort on the economic Recovery Act to get it passed. It was a big recovery package, roughly $800 billion. I did everything I could to get it passed, including getting three Republicans to change their votes and vote for it. But it wasn’t enough. It wasn’t quite big enough. It stemmed the crisis, but the recovery could have been faster and even bigger. Today, we need an answer that meets the challenge of this crisis, not one that falls short. And that’s the issue facing the country right now. What Republicans have proposed is either to do nothing or not enough. All of a sudden, many of them have rediscovered fiscal restraint and the concern for the deficits. But don’t kid yourself — this approach will come with a cost: more pain for more people, for longer than it has to be. Secretary Yellen talks about the scarring effect that comes with prolonged economic pain. We see that scarring effect in economic data. But more important, we can see it in the lives of people living with long-term unemployment, living in hunger, at wits’ end over how to keep their jobs and take care of their kids. And then she talks about the need to alleviate long-term suffering in the economy. We can do that. We don’t have to wait until 2025 to get back to full employment, which will be the case if we don’t do this. Again, independent analysis from places like Moody’s, on Wall Street, the Brookings Institution — the American Rescue Plan could achieve that by the beginning — full employment by the beginning of next year. So, to me, this is — this is what this moment comes down to. Are we going to pass a big enough package to vaccinate people, to get people back to work, to alleviate the suffering in this country this year? That’s what I want to do. Or are we going to say to millions of Americans who are out of work — many of whom have been out of work for six months or longer, who have been scarred by this economic and public health crisis — “Don’t worry, hang on. Things are going to get better. We’re going to go smaller, so it’s just going to take us a lot longer”? Like, until 2025. That’s the Republican answer right now. I can’t in good conscience do that. Too many people in the nation have already suffered for too long through this pandemic and economic crisis. And telling them we don’t have the money to alleviate their suffering, to get to full employment sooner, to vaccinate America after $8 trillion in deficit spending over the past four years — much of it having gone to the wealthiest people in the country — is neither true nor necessary. We do have the resources to get to full employment sooner. We do have the tools to reduce a lot of suffering in this country. We just have to choose to use them. So it’s time to act. We can reduce suffering in this country. We can put people back to work. We can control — gain control of this virus. That’s what the American Rescue Plan does. And that’s what I’m determined to do, and that’s what I hope we’re going to be able to do in the near term. So may God bless you all. May God protect our troops. And I truly believe real help is on the way. Thank you all so very much. Thank you. We’re going to be talking about the recovery package, but we saw the jobs report that only 6,000 private sector jobs have been created. And at that rate, it’s going to take 10 years before we get to full employment. That’s not — that’s not hyperbole; that’s a fact. We’re going to be in a situation where it’ll take a long, long time. And I appreciate you all coming over because — and the urgency with which you’re moving — this is about people’s lives. This is not just about numbers; this is about people’s lives. People are — I don’t have to tell any of you, they’re really hurting. People are being evicted. Just look at all the number of people who are needing and seeking mental health services now. Suicide is up. People are very — really, really — drug abuse, violence against women. People are really feeling the hole. They don’t know how to get out. You’ve given them a lot of hope — a lot of hope with the — as they say in southern Delaware: With the grace of God and the goodwill of the neighbor, with the crick not rising, we can really begin to do something consequentially. So I want to thank you all. And what I — you know, President — President Obama put me in charge of the Recovery Act, and it was hard as hell to get the votes for it to begin with, and then it was hard as hell to get even the number we got. But one thing we learned is, you know, we can’t do too much here; we can do too little. We can do too little and sputter. But again, the end result is, it’s not just the macroeconomic impact on the economy and our ability to compete internationally; it’s people’s lives. Real, live people are hurting, and we can fix it. And we can fix it. And the irony of all ironies is, when we help them, we are also helping our competitive capacity through the remainder of this decade. I mean, it’s real. So we got a chance to do something big here. And I’m — and thank you for last night, yesterday, and what you’re going to be doing on this Recovery Act. And I can hardly wait to sit down with Peter DeFazio to work on infrastructure. This is the next big piece. So, thank you all for being here, and thank you for coming in. I appreciate it. Well, let me begin by saying, from all three of us — the Vice President, the new Secretary of Homeland Security — that our hearts go out to the families of these FBI special agents, and — two of whom were killed and three of whom were injured today in Florida. I was briefed on this tragedy earlier today, and I know the FBI is gathering information about how this happened, what happened. But I — I can only imagine how these families are feeling today. You know, one of the things, when you are in a combat zone of the military or you’re a FBI agent, or military or a police officer, every family just — when they put that shield on and go out in the morning — dreads the possibility of a call — receiving that phone call. And my heart aches for the families. I’ve not had an opportunity, nor will I try today, to contact them. But they put their lives on the line, and it’s a hell of a price to pay. And every single day, every single one of these folks get up and they — by and large, the vast, vast majority of these men and women are decent, honorable people who put themselves on the line, and we owe them. But the purpose of my asking you here today is I want to congratulate the new Secretary. Secretary Mayorkas is going to take on an easy job — nothing to it: Homeland Security. And going to deal — I’m looking forward to his leadership and working with Congress on a lot of issues, including the immigration bill that has, I think, great support in both chambers. Today, I’m going to sign a few executive orders to strengthen our immigration system, building on the executive actions I took on day one to protect DREAMers, and the Muslim ban, and to better manage of our borders. And that’s what these three different executive orders are about. And I want to make it clear — there’s a lot of talk, with good reason, about the number of executive orders that I have signed — I’m not making new law; I’m eliminating bad policy. What I’m doing is taking on the issues that — 99 percent of them — that the President — the last President of the United States issued executive orders I felt were very counterproductive to our security, counterproductive to who we are as a country, particularly in — in the area of immigration. This is about how America is safer, stronger, more prosperous when we have a fair, orderly, and humane, and legal immigration system. And with the first action today, we’re going to work to undo the moral and national shame of the previous administration that literally, not figuratively, ripped children from the arms of their families — their mothers and fathers at the border — and with no plan, none whatsoever, to reunify the children who are still in custody and their parents. The second action addresses the root causes of a migration to our southern border. And the third action — the third order I’m going to be signing orders a full review of the previous administration’s harmful and counterproductive immigration policies, basically across the board. And so, with that, I’m going to sign the first order, which is the reestablishment of an Interagency Task Force on the Reunification of Families. It removes the stain on our reputation for what these separations caused. That is the first order. The second order I’m signing is “Creating a Comprehensive Regional Framework to Address the Causes of Migration, [and] to Manage Migration Throughout the North and Central America, and to Provide [a] Safe and Orderly Processing Of Asylum Seekers at the United States Border”. And the third order I’m signing is “Restoring [the] Faith in Our Legal Immigration System and Strengthening Integration and Inclusion Efforts for New Americans.” As my grandfather would say: By the grace of God and the goodwill of neighbors, we’ll reunite these children and reestablish our reputation as being a haven for people in need. Thank you very, very much. Thank you. We’ll have plenty of time to talk about it. Since we are socially distanced, I think I can take my mask off to make this very brief announcement. I know that you’ve been briefed by the healthcare team about what this is about. And there is an easy and quick way for us to describe this. It’s been a busy week, and I’ve signed executive orders tackling COVID-19, the economic and climate crises, as well as advancing racial equity. But, today, I’m about to sign two executive orders that are — basically, the best way to describe them, to undo the damage Trump has done. There’s nothing new that we’re doing here, other than restoring the Affordable Care Act and restoring the Medicaid to the way it was before Trump became President, which by fiat he changed — made more inaccessible, more expensive, and more difficult for people to qualify for either of those two items: the Affordable Care Act or Medicaid. And the second — the second order I’m going to be signing also changes what the President has done — the President — the President — what the former President has done. And it — a memorandum reversed the — my predecessor’s attack on women’s health — — excuse me — health access. And as we continue to battle COVID-19, it’s even more critical that Americans have meaningful access to healthcare. And so that’s what I’m about to do. And again, I’m not initiating any new law, any new aspect of the law. This is going back to what the situation was prior to the President’s executive orders. And the first one I’m going to be signing here is to strengthen Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act. And of all times that we need to reinstate access to, affordability of, and the extent of access to Medicaid is now, in the middle of this COVID crisis. And the second order I’m singing relates to protecting women’s health at home and abroad, and it reinstates the changes that were made to Title 10 and other things, making it harder for women to have access to affordable healthcare as it relates to their reproductive rights. I’m sorry you had to stand in the cold before you all came in. Thank you all very much. We got a lot to do. And the first thing I got to do is get this COVID package passed. No one requires me to do anything. Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. I know the press has just had a long session with — with the team here about what I’m going to be talking about today and this afternoon. And let me just start by saying, I can’t tell you how much I appreciate the three people standing next to me here for what they’ve agreed to do to help, particularly my best buddy, John Kerry. Asking a former Secretary of State to come back and do this has been a — I know it was a big ask on the part of myself. I was going to — I was going to blame Kamala for it as well, but for both of us. And — but John has been deeply involved; the Secretary has been deeply involved in climate issues as a senator and one of the leaders, legislatively, as well. And I don’t think anybody knows more about the issue and the damage that’s been done by some of the executive orders of the previous administration. And Gina — you run everything, Gina. Thank you very much. Let me get to it. Today is “Climate Day” at the White House and — which means that today is “Jobs Day” at the White House. We’re talking about American innovation, American products, American labor. And we’re talking about the health of our families and cleaner water, cleaner air, and cleaner communities. We’re talking about national security and America leading the world in a clean energy future. It’s a future of enormous hope and opportunity. It’s about coming to the moment to deal with this maximum threat that we — that’s now facing us — climate change — with a greater sense of urgency. In my view, we’ve already waited too long to deal with this climate crisis and we can’t wait any longer. We see it with our own eyes, we feel it, we know it in our bones, and it’s time to act. And I might note, parenthetically: If you notice, the attitude of the American people toward greater impetus on focusing on climate change and doing something about it has increased across the board — Democrat, Republican, independent. It’s — that’s why I’m signing today an executive order to supercharge our administration ambitious plan to confront the existential threat of climate change. And it is an existential threat. Last year, wildfires burned more than 5,000 acres in the West — as no one knows better than the Vice President, a former Senator from California — an area roughly the size of the entire state of New Jersey. More intense and powerful hurricanes and tropical storms pummeled states across the Gulf Coast and along the East Coast — I can testify to that, from Delaware. Historic floods, severe droughts have ravaged the Midwest. More Americans see and feel the devastation in big cities, small towns, coastlines, and in farmlands, in red states and blue states. And the Defense Department reported that climate change is a direct threat to more than two thirds of the military’s operational critical installations. Two thirds. And so this could — we could — this could well be on the conservative side. And many climate and health calamities are colliding all at once. It’s not just the pandemic that keeps people inside; it’s poor air quality. Multiple studies have shown that air pollution is associated with an increased risk of death from COVID-19. And just like we need a unified national response to COVID-19, we desperately need a unified national response to the climate crisis because there is a climate crisis. We must keep — we must lead global response because neither challenge can be met, as Secretary Kerry has pointed out many times, by the United States alone. We know what to do, we’ve just got to do it. When we think of climate change, we think of it — this is a case where conscious and convenience cross paths, where dealing with this existential threat to the planet and increasing our economic growth and prosperity are one in the same. When I think of climate change, I think of — and the answers to it — I think of jobs. A key plank of our Build Back Better Recovery Plan is building a modern, resilient climate infrastructure and clean energy future that will create millions of good-paying union jobs — not 7, 8, 10, 12 dollars an hour, but prevailing wage and benefits. You know, we can put millions of Americans to work modernizing our water systems, transportation, our energy infrastructure to withstand the impacts of extreme climate. We’ve already reached a point where we’re going to have to live with what it is now. That’s going to require a lot of work all by itself, without it getting any worse. When we think of renewable energy, we see American manufacturing, American workers racing to lead the global market. We see farmers making American agriculture first in the world to achieve net-zero emissions and gaining new sources of income in the process. And I want to parenthetically thank the Secretary of Agriculture for helping to put together that program during the campaign. We see small business and master electricians designing, installing, and innovating energy-conserving technologies and building homes and buildings. And we’re going to reduce electric consumption and save hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in energy costs in the process. And when the previous administration reversed the Obama-Biden vehicle standard and picked Big Oil companies over American workers, the Biden-Harris administration will not only bring those standards back, we’ll set new, ambitious ones that our workers are ready to meet. We see these workers building new buildings, installing 500,000 new electric vehicle charging stations across the country as we modernize our highway systems to adapt to the changes that have already taken place. We see American consumers switching to electric vehicles through rebates and incentives, and the residents of our cities and towns breathing cleaner air, and fewer kids living with asthma and dying from it. And not only that, the federal government owns and maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles, as you all know. With today’s executive order, combined with the Buy American executive order I signed on Monday, we’re going to harness the purchasing power of the federal government to buy clean, zero-emission vehicles that are made and sourced by union workers right here in America. With everything I just mentioned, this will mean one million new jobs in the American automobile industry. One million. And we’ll do another thing: We’ll take steps towards my goal of achieving 100 percent carbon-pollution-free electric sector by 2035. Transforming the American electric sector to produce power without carbon pollution will be a tremendous spur to job creation and economic competitiveness in the 21st century, not to mention the benefits to our health and to our environment. Already, 84 percent of all new electric capacity planned to come onto the electric grid this is year is clean energy. Clean energy. Why? Because it’s affordable; because it’s clean; because, in many cases, it’s cheaper. And it’s the way we’re keeping up — they’re keeping up. We’re going to need scientists, the national labs, land-grant universities, historical black colleges and universities to innovate the technologies needed to generate, store, and transmit clean electric — clean electricity across distances, and battery technology, and a whole range of other things. We need engineers to design them and workers to manufacture them. We need iron workers and welders to install them. Technologies they invent, design, and build will ultimately become cheaper than any other kind of energy, helping us dramatically expand our economy and create more jobs with a cleaner, cleaner environment. And we’ll become the world’s largest exporter of those technologies, creating even more jobs. You know, we are also — we’re going to build 1.5 million new energy-efficient homes and public housing units that are going to benefit communities three times over: one, by alleviating the affordable housing crisis; two, by increasing energy efficiency; and, three, by reducing the racial wealth gap linked to home ownership. We’re also going to create more than a quarter million jobs to do things like plug the millions of abandoned oil and gas wells that pose an ongoing threat to the health and safety of our communities. They’re abandoned wells that are open now, and we’re going to put people to work. They’re not going to lose jobs in these areas; they’re going to create jobs. They’re going to get prevailing wage to cap those over a million wells. These aren’t pie-in-the-sky dreams. These are concrete, actionable solutions, and we know how to do this. The Obama-Biden administration reduced the auto industry — rescued the auto industry and helped them retool. We need solar energy cost-competitive with traditional energy, weatherizing more — we made them cost-competitive, weatherizing more than a million homes. The Recovery Act of our administration — the last admin- — our admin- — the Democratic administration made record clean energy investments: $90 billion. The President asked me to make sure how that money was spent, on everything from smart grid systems to clean energy manufacturing. Now, the Biden-Harris administration is going to do it again and go beyond. The executive order I’ll be signing establishes a White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy. And it’ll be led by one of America’s most distinguished climate leaders, former EPA Director Gina McCarthy. As the head of the new office and my National Climate Advisor, Gina will chair a National Climate Task Force, made up of many members of our Cabinet, to deliver a whole-of-government approach to the climate crisis. This is not — it’s not time for small measures; we need to be bold. So, let me be clear: That includes helping revitalize the economies of coal, oil, and gas, and power plant communities. We have to start by creating new, good-paying jobs, capping those abandoned wells, reclaiming mines, turning old brownfield sites into new hubs of economic growth, creating new, good-paying jobs in those communities where those workers live because they helped build this country. We’re never going to forget the men and women who dug the coal and built the nation. We’re going to do right by them and make sure they have opportunities to keep building the nation and their own communities and getting paid well for it. While the whole-of-government approach is necessary, though, it’s not sufficient. We’re going to work with mayors and governors and tribal leaders and business leaders who are stepping up, and the young people organizing and leading the way. My message to those young people is: You have the full capacity and power of the federal government. Your government is going to work with you. Now, today’s executive order also directs the Secretary of the Interior to stop issuing new oil and gas leases on public lands and offsh- — and offshore waters, wherever possible. We’re going to review and reset the oil and gas leasing program. Like the previous administration, we’ll start to properly manage — unlike it, we’re going to start to properly manage lands and waterways in ways that allow us to protect, preserve them — the full value that they provide for us for future generations. Let me be clear, and I know this always comes up: We’re not going to ban fracking. We’ll protect jobs and grow jobs, including through stronger standards, like controls from methane leaks and union workers in — willing to install the changes. Unlike previous administrations, I don’t think the federal government should give handouts to big oil to the tune of $40 billion in fossil fuel subsidies. And I’m going to be going to the Congress asking them to eliminate those subsidies. We’re going to take money and invest it in clean energy jobs in America — millions of jobs in wind, solar, and carbon capture. In fact, today’s actions are going to help us increase renewable energy production from offshore wind and meet our obligation to be good stewards of our public lands. It establishes a new, modern-day Civilian Climate Corps — that I called for when I was campaigning — to heal our public lands and make us less vulnerable to wildfires and floods. Look, this executive order I’m signing today also makes it official that climate change will be at the center of our national security and foreign policy. As Secretary Kerry — as our Special Presidential Envoy for Climate — with him, the world knows how serious I am about one of America’s — by appointing one of America’s most distinguished statesmen and one of my closest friends, speaking for America on one of the most pressing threats of our time. John was instrumental in negotiating the Paris Climate Agreement that we started to — that we rejoined — this administration rejoined on day one, as I promised. And today’s executive order will help strengthen that commitment by working with other nations to support the most vulnerable to the impact of climate change and to increase our collective resilience. That includes a summit of world leaders that I’ll convene to address this climate crisis on Earth Day, this year. In order to establish a new effort to integrate the security implications of climate change as part of our national security and risk assessment and analysis will also be included. With this executive order, environmental justice will be at the center of all we do addressing the disproportionate health and environmental and economic impacts on communities of color — so-called “fenceline communities” — especially those communities — brown, black, Native American, poor whites. It’s hard — the hard-hit areas like Cancer Alley in Louisia- — Cancer Alley in Louisiana, or the Route 9 corridor in the state of Delaware. That’s why we’re going to work to make sure that they receive 40 percent of the benefits of key federal investments in clean energy, clean water, and wastewater infrastructure. Lifting up these communities makes us all stronger as a nation and increases the health of everybody. Finally, as with our fight against COVID-19, we will listen to the science and protect the integrity of our federal response to the climate crisis. Earlier this month, I nominated Dr. Eric Lander, a brilliant scientist who is here today, to be the Director of the Office of Science and Technology. I also nominated another brilliant scientist, Dr. Frances Arnold and Dr. Maria Zuber, to co-chair the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology — so-called “PCAST” — that President Eisenhower started six weeks after the launch of Sputnik. It’s a team of America’s top scientists charged with asking the most American of questions: “What next? What’s the next big breakthrough?” And then helping us make the impossible possible. Today, I’m signing a presidential memorandum making it clear that we will protect our world-class scientists from political interference and ensure they can think, research, and speak freely and directly to me, the Vice President, and the American people. To summarize, this executive order — it’s about jobs — good-paying union jobs. It’s about workers building our economy back better than before. It’s a whole-of-government approach to put climate change at the center of our domestic, national security, and foreign policy. It’s advancing conservation; revitalizing communities and cities and in the fa– on the farmlands; and securing environmental justice. Our plans are ambitious, but we are America. We’re bold. We are unwavering in the pursuit of jobs and innovation, science and discovery. We can do this, we must do this, and we will do this. I’m now going to sign the executive order to meet the climate crisis with American jobs and American ingenuity. And I want to thank you all. I’m going to go over and sign that now. The first order I’m signing is tackling the climate crisis at home and abroad. This next one: Restoring trust in government through science and integrity and evidence-based policy making. . One more here. And this last one is the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology established. . I thank you all for your time. Thank you for taking the time to be here. Good afternoon. I’m accompanied by Jeff Zients, who is heading up our whole COVID team. And today, what I’d like to do is to upgrade — update you on where we are. Tomorrow, we’re going to begin the briefings that are going to occur on a regular basis with Mr. Zients and his team. So we’re bringing back the pros to talk about COVID in an unvarnished way. Any questions you have, that’s how we’ll handle them because we’re letting science speak again. And so, I — I’d like to update you on the aggressive steps we’re taking to meet our goal of administering 100 million COVID-19 vaccine shots within — within a hundred days, and to ramp up the vaccine supply as fast as we can. This will be one of the most difficult operational challenges we’ve ever undertaken as a nation. I’ve said that before, but I must say it again because we’re going to do — we’re going to do everything we can to get it done. But a lot of things can go wrong along the way. And so, I’ve — as I’ve said in the past, we want to give credit to everyone involved in this vaccine effort and the prior administration and the science community and the medical sphere — — for getting the program — I didn’t do it, I promise — — for getting the program off the ground. And that credit is absolutely due. But it’s also no secret that we have recently discovered, in the final days of the transition — and it wasn’t until the final days we got the kind of cooperation we needed — that once we arrived, the vaccine program is worse shape than we anticipated or expected. A lot of you who follow this — and nobody is — I mean this sincerely, the press is the smartest group of people in town; you hone this stuff down, clearly — I think you found the same thing. Even before I took office, I announced a new vaccine — a vaccination strategy which centers on federal leadership and execution for our whole country. And that’s why I directed my COVID team to go to work immediately, and how we could step up the vaccination efforts and the vaccinations. I’m pleased to announce the first progress in that work today on day seven of my presidency. First, after review of the current vaccine supply manufacturing plants, I can announce that we will increase overall weekly vaccination distribution to states, tribes, and territories from 8.6 million doses to a minimum of 10 million doses, starting next week. That’s an increase of 1.4 million doses per week. And you all know — if I may note, parenthetically — you all know — know that the vaccines are distributed to states based on population. They’re based on population. And so the smaller the state, the less vaccine; the bigger the state, the more they get. And so this is going to allow millions of more Americans to get vaccinated sooner than previously anticipated. We got a long way to go, though. The second thing: We’re increasing the transparency with states, cities, and tribes, and local partners when it comes to the vaccine supply. This is something we’ve heard over and over again from both Democrats and Republicans, state and local leaders: that they need a plan in order to what — they didn’t know what they had to plan on. They need to know what the order is going to be. Jeff had a meeting with the governors on Zoom and — and others. And I think we’re getting this coordinated in a way that there’s increased cooperation and confidence. But until now, we’ve had to guess how much vaccine to expect for the next week. And that’s what the governors had to do: “How much am I getting next week?” This is unacceptable. They — you know, the lives are at stake here. From this week forward, God willing, we’ll ensure that states, tribes, and territories will now always have a reliable three-week forecast on what the supply they’re going to get. So they’ll know, three weeks ahead of time, what’s going to be there in the third week. This is going to help make sure governors, mayors, and local leaders have greater certainty around supply so they can carry out their plans to vaccinate as many people as possible. So, we will both increase the supply in the short term by more than 15 percent and give our states and local partners more certainty about when the deliveries will arrive. These two steps are going to help increase our prospects of hitting and — or exceeding, God willing, the ambitious goal of 100 million shots in 100 days. But I also want to be clear: 100 million shots in 100 days is not the endpoint; it’s just the start. We’re not stopping there. The end goal is to beat COVID-19. And the way we do that is to get more people vaccinated, which means we have to be ready, after we hit the ground [sic] — after we hit the goal of 100 million shots in 100 days. Now, that means fewer than 100 million people getting totally vaccinated; it means 100 [million] shots, and it means somewhere between 60 — maybe less, maybe more — million people will have the — because it requires two shots in many cases — not always. So today, I’m directing COVID-19 Response Coordinator Jeff Zeints, here, to work with the Department of Health and Human Services to increase our total supply of vaccine for the American people. And we believe that we’ll soon be able to confirm the purchase of an additional 100 billion [million] doses for each of the two FDA-authorized vaccines: Pfizer and Moderna. That’s 100 million more doses of Pfizer and 100 million more doses of Moderna — 200 million more doses than the federal government had previously secured. Not in hand yet, but ordered. We expect these additional 200 million doses to be delivered this summer. And some of it will come as early — begin to come in early summer, but by the mid- — by the mid-summer, that this vaccine will be there. And the order — and that increases the total vaccine order in the United States by 50 percent — from 400 million ordered to 600 million. This is enough vaccine to fully vaccinate 300 Americans by the end of the summer, beginning of the fall. But we want to make — look, that’s — I want to repeat: It’ll be enough to fully vaccinate 300 [million] Americans to beat this pandemic — 300 million Americans. And this is aggregate plan that doesn’t leave anything on the table or anything to chance, as we’ve seen happen in the past year. I’ve said before: This is a wartime effort. When I say — when I say that, people ask, “Wartime?” I say, “Yeah, more than 400,000 Americans have already died.” I think it’s four hundred eleven or twelve [thousand] have died in one year of this pandemic — more than all the people who died in all of — Americans who died in World War Two. This is a wartime undertaking; it’s not hyperbole. And as such, I directed the team to be ready to exercise all the authorities I have under the Defense Production Act, and expedite these vaccines. And we’re using the Defense Production Act to launch a full-scale, wartime effort to address the supply shortages we inherited from the previous administration. We’re going to be working across the government, with private industry, to ramp up production of vaccine and protective equipment — the syringes, the needles, the gloves, the swabs, and the masks — everything that’s needed to protect, test, vaccinate, and take care of our people. Well, we’ve already identified suppliers, and we’re working with them to move our plan forward. The biggest problem — I hope you’re all asking me by the end of the summer that, “You have too much vaccine left over. You have too much equipment leftover.” That’s not my worry. I hope that becomes the problem, rather than we somehow find interruptions in supply or access. These aggressive steps to increase vaccine supply come on top of the steps we took last week to get more people vaccinated for free, to create more places for them to get vaccinated, and to mobilize more medical teams to get shots in people’s arms. We’ve directed FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to stand up the first federally supported community vaccination centers, and that work is underway. We’re working to make vaccines available to thousands of local pharmacies, beginning in early February; it’s a couple weeks off. And we — that will enormously expand our reach. Last week, I also signed a declaration to immediately begin reimbursing states 100 percent for the uses of their National Guard to help the COVID relief effort, both getting people — getting the sites set up and even using some of their personnel to administer some of the vaccines. And I think it’s something Democrats and Republicans and governors alike have called for. We’re also expanding testing, which will help schools and businesses reopen safely and protect the most vulnerable. And we formalized the Health Equity Task Force to ensure that equity is at the core of everything we do in urban and rural communities alike, to make sure those people most significantly damaged have — have access. Access. We have to change. We have move in a direction for those communities that are hard to get to. But the brutal truth is: It’s going to take months before we can get the majority of Americans vaccinated. Months. In the next few months, masks — not vaccines — are the best defense against COVID-19. Experts say that wearing masks from now just until April would save 50,000 lives who otherwise will pass away if we don’t wear these masks. That’s why I’m asking the American people to mask up for the first 100 days. I’ve issued executive orders requiring masks on federal property and interstate travel — trains and planes and buses. One congressman pointed out — I could — well, he used a very, anyway, colorful term to say wearing a mask — “I tell him to kiss my ear; I’m not going to wear a mask.” Well, guess what? Not very American. The fact is, you want to be patriotic; you’re going to protect people. And new COVID-19 variants are — we are instituting new measures to deal with these individuals flying into the United States from other countries. You’ve all hold — if you could hold a second — you’ve all heard about the strain — the British strain, the Brazilian strain, the South African strain. And they are — they seem to be more transmittable more easily. So, in addition to wearing masks, everyone flying to the United States from another country, we need to test before they get on that plane and self-quarantine when they arrive in America. I’m going to close with this: I now have a national — we now have a national strategy to beat COVID-19. It’s comprehensive. It’s based on science, not politics. It’s based on truth, not denial. And it is detailed. It’s going to require Congress to pass the American Rescue Plan to provide funding to administer the vaccines, to ramp up testing, to help schools and businesses reopen, and to deliver immediate economic relief to Americans who are badly in need of it through no fault of their own. And our plan will take time. Progress from our plan will take time to measure, as people getting infected today don’t show up in case counts for weeks, and those who perish from those — from the disease die weeks after that exposure. You know, despite the best — our best intentions, we’re going to face setbacks, which I will always explain to you and acknowledge. And let me be clear: Things are going to continue to get worse before they get better. The death toll, experts tell us, is likely to top 500,000 by the end of next month — February — and cases will continue to mount. We didn’t get into this mess overnight, and it’s going to take months for us to turn things around. But let me be equally clear: We’re going to get through this. We will defeat this pandemic. And to a nation waiting for action, let me be clearest on this point: Help is on the way. We can do this if we come together, if we listen to the scientists. And as I said: Tomorrow, I say to the press, the entire team will be back in the business of — my COVID team — of answering all your detailed questions. So, thank you very much for your patience. Keep the faith. We’re going to get this done. And I’ll always level with you about the state of affairs. Thank you. Good afternoon, folks. I thank the Vice President for being with me today as well. In my campaign for President, I made it very clear that the moment had arrived as a nation where we face deep racial inequities in America and system- — systemic racism that has plagued our nation for far, far too long. I said it over the course of the past year that the blinders had been taken come off the nation of the American people. What ma- — what many Americans didn’t see, or had simply refused to see, couldn’t be ignored any longer. Those 8 minutes and 46 seconds that took George Floyd’s life opened the eyes of millions of Americans and millions of people around — all over the world. It was the knee on the neck of justice, and it wouldn’t be forgotten. It stirred the conscience of tens of millions of Americans, and, in my view, it marked a turning point in this country’s attitude toward racial justice. When his six-years-old — six-year-old daughter, Gianna, who I met with when I met with the family — I leaned down to say hi to her, and she said — looked at me, and she said, “Daddy changed the world.” That’s what Gianna said — his daughter. “Daddy changed the world.” And I believe she is right, not because this kind of injustice stopped — it clearly hasn’t — but because the ground has shifted, because it’s changed minds and mindsets, because it laid the groundwork for progress. COVID-19 has further ripped a path of destruction through every community in America, but no one has been spared, but the devastation in communities of color has been nothing short of stunning. Just look at the numbers: 40 percent of frontline workers — nurses, first responders, grocery store workers — are Americans of color, and many are still living on the edge. One in ten black Americans is out of work today. One in eleven Latino Americans is out of work today. One in seven households in America — about one in four black, one in five Latino households in America — report that they don’t have enough food to eat in the United States of America. Black and Latino Americans are dying of COVID-19 at rates nearly three times that of white Americans. And it’s not white Americans’ fault, but it’s just a fact. And the Americans now know it, especially younger Americans. One of the reasons I’m so optimistic about this nation is that today’s generation of young Americans is the most progressive, thoughtful, inclusive generation that America has ever seen. And they are pulling us toward justice in so many ways, forcing us to confront the huge gap in economi- — excuse me, economic inequity between those at the top and everyone else, forcing us to confront the existential crisis of climate; and, yes, forcing us to confront systemic racism and white supremacy. It’s just been weeks since all of America witnessed a group of thugs, insurrectionists, political extremists, and white supremacists violently attack the Capitol of our democracy. And so now — now is the time to act. It’s time to act because that’s what the faith and morality calls us to do. Across nearly every faith, the same principles hold: We’re all God’s children; we should treat each other as we would like to be treated ourselves. And this is time to act — and this time to act is because it’s what the core values of this nation call us to do. And I believe the vast majority of Americans — Democrats, Republicans, and independents — share these values and want us to act as well. We have never fully lived up to the founding principles of this nation, to state the obvious, that all people are created equal and have a right to be treated equally throughout their lives. And it’s time to act now, not only because it’s the right thing to do, but because if we do, we’ll all be better off for it. For too long, we’ve allowed a narrow, cramped view of the promise of this nation to fester. You know, we’ve — we’ve bought the view that America is a zero-sum game in many cases: “If you succeed, I fail.” “If you get ahead, I fall behind.” “If you get the job, I lose mine.” Maybe worst of all, “If I hold you down, I lift myself up.” We’ve lost sight of what President Kennedy told us when he said, “A rising tide lifts all boats.” And when we lift each other up, we’re all lifted up. You know, and the corollary is true as well: When any one of us is held down, we’re all held back. More and more economic studies in recent years have proven this, but I don’t think you need economic studies to see the truth. Just imagine if instead of consigning millions of American children to under-resourced schools, we gave each and every three- and four-year-old child a chance to learn, to go to school — not daycare, school — and grow and thrive in school and throughout. When they’ve done that — the places it’s been done, it shows they have an exponentially greater chance of going all the way through 12 years of school and doing it well. But, you know, does anyone — does anyone in this whole nation think we’re not all better off if that were to happen? Just imagine if instead of denying millions of Americans the ability to own a home and build generational wealth — who made it possible for them buy a home, their first home — and begin to build equity to provide for their families and send their children off to school, does anyone doubt that the whole nation will be better off? Just imagine: Instead of denying millions of young entrepreneurs the ability to access capital, we made it possible to take their dream to market, create jobs, reinvest in their own communities. Does anyone doubt this whole nation wouldn’t be better off? Just imagine if more incredibly creative and innovative — how much more creative and innovative we’d be if this nation held — held the historic black colleges and universities to the same opportunities — and minority-serving institutions — that had the same funding and resources of public universities to compete for jobs and industries of the future. You know, just ask the first HBCU graduate elected as Vice President if that’s not true. But to do this, I believe this nation and this government need to change their whole approach to the issue of racial equal- — equity. Yes, we need criminal justice reform, but that isn’t nearly enough. We need to open the promise of America to every American. And that means we need to make the issue of racial equity not just an issue for any one department of government; it has to be the business of the whole of government. That’s why I issued, among the first days, my whole-of-government executive order that will, for the first time, advance equity for all throughout our federal policies and institutions. It focuses on the full range of communities who have been long underserved and overlooked: people of color; Americans with disabilities; LGBTQ Americans; religious minorities; rural, urban, suburban communities facing persistent poverty. And I’ve asked Ambassador Susan Rice to lead the administration’s charge through the White House and Domestic Policy Council because I know she’ll see it through. Every White House, every White House component, and every agency will be involved in this work because advancing equity has to be everyone’s job. Today, I’ll be shortly signing an additional package of executive actions to continue this vital work. Housing, for example: Housing is a right in America, and homeownership is an essential tool to wealth creation and to be passed down to generations. Today, I’m directing the Department of Housing and Urban Affairs — and Urban Development to redress historical racism in federal housing policies. Today, I’m directing the federal agency to reinvigorate the consultation process with Indian tribes. Respect the tribal sovereignty — respect for tribal sovereignty will be a cornerstone of our engaging with Native American communities. This builds on the work we did last week to expand tribes’ access to the Strategic National Stockpile for the first time, to ensure they receive help from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, to fight this pandemic. Today, I’m directing federal agencies to combat resurgence of xenophobia, particularly against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, that we’ve seen skyrocket during this pandemic. This is unacceptable and it’s un-American. I’ve asked the Department of Justice to strengthen its partnership with the Asian American and Pacific Islander community to prevent those hate crimes. I’ve also asked the Department of Health and Human Services to put out best practices for combatting xenophobia in our national response to COVID. Look, in the weeks ahead, I’ll be reaffirming the federal government’s commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion and accessibility, building on the work we started in the Obama-Biden administration. That’s why I rescinded the previous administration’s harmful ban on diversity and sensitivity training, and abolished the offensive, counter-factual 1776 Commission. Unity and healing must begin with understanding and truth, not ignorance and lies. Today, I’m also issuing an executive order that will ultimately end the Justice Department’s use of the private prison indus- — private prisons, an industry that houses pretrial detrainees [sic] — detainees and federal prisoners. The executive order directs the Attorney General to decline to renew contracts with privately operated criminal facilities — a step we started to take at the end of the Obama administration and was reversed under the previous administration. This is the first step to stop corporations from profiteering off of incarcerating — incarceration that is less humane and less safe, as the studies show. And it is just the beginning of my administration’s plan to address systemic problems in our criminal justice system. Here’s another thing that we need to do: We need to restore and expand the Voting Rights Act — named after our dear friend, John Lewis — and continue to fight back against laws that many states are engaged in to suppress the right to vote, while expanding access to the ballot box for all eligible voters. Because here’s the deal, and I’ll close with this: I ran for President because I believe we’re in a battle for the soul of this nation. And the simple truth is, our soul will be troubled as long as systemic racism is allowed to persist. We can’t eliminate it if — it’s not going to be overnight. We can’t eliminate everything. But it’s corrosive, it’s destructive, and it’s costly. It costs every American, not just who have felt the sting of racial injustice. We aren’t just less of a — we are not just a nation of morally deprived because of systemic racism; we’re also less prosperous, we’re less successful, we’re less secure. So, we must change, and I know it’s going to take time. But I know we can do it. And I firmly believe the nation is ready to change, but government has to change as well. We need to make equity and justice part of what we do every day — today, tomorrow, and every day. Now I’m going to sign these executive actions to continue the work to make real the promise of America for every American. Again, I’m not promising we can end it tomorrow, but I promise you: We’re going to continue to make progress to eliminate systemic racism, and every branch of the White House and the federal government is going to be part of that effort. Thank you. This first executive order is a memorandum for the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to redress our nation’s and the federal government’s history of discriminatory housing practices and policies. The next executive order is reforming the incarceration system by eliminating the use of privately operated criminal detention facilities. The third executive order is a memorandum for the heads of executive departments and agencies on tribal consultation, and strengthening nation-to-nation relationships. The last executive order is condemning and combatting racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States. I think the country is ready, and I know this administration is ready. Thank you. You. He sent his best. Good afternoon, folks. I’m going to make some brief remarks, sign an executive order, and then take your questions, if that’s okay with you all. Last week, we immediately got to work to contain the pandemic and deliver economic relief to millions of Americans who need it the most. And today we’re getting to work to rebuild the backbone of America: manufacturing, unions, and the middle class. It’s based on a simple premise: that we’ll reward work, not wealth, in this country. And the key plank of ensuring the future will be “Made in America.” I’ve long said that I don’t accept the defeatist view that the forces of automation and globalization can’t keep — can keep union jobs from growing here in America. We can create more of them, not fewer of them. I don’t buy for one second the — that the vitality of the American manufacturing is a thing of the past. American manufacturing was the arsenal of democracy in World War Two, and it must be part of the engine of American prosperity now. That means we are going to use taxpayers’ money to rebuild America. We’ll buy American products and support American jobs, union jobs. For example, the federal government every year spends approximately $600 billion in government procurement to keep the country going safe and secure. And there’s a law that’s been on the books for almost a century now: to make sure that that money was spent — taxpayers’ dollars for procurement is spent to support American jobs and American businesses. But the previous administration didn’t take it seriously enough. Federal agencies waived the Buy American requirement without much pushback at all. Big corporations and special interests have long fought for loopholes to redirect American taxpayers’ dollars to foreign companies where the products are being made. The result: tens of billions of American taxpayers’ dollars supporting foreign jobs and foreign industries. In 1918 — excuse me, in 2018 alone, the Department spent $3 billion — the Defense Department — on foreign construction contracts, leaving American steel and iron out in the cold. It spent nearly $300 million in foreign engines and on vehicles instead of buying American vehicles and engines from American companies, putting Americans to work. Under the previous administration, the federal government contract awarded directly to foreign companies went up 30 percent. That is going to change on our watch. Today I’m taking the first steps in my larger Build Back Better Recovery Plan that invests in American workers, unions, and businesses up and down the supply chain. And I know that previous presidents entered office by promising to buy America and instituting the Buy American policy, but here’s why this is different and not the same: I’ll be signing an executive order in just a moment, tightening the existing Buy American policies, and go further. We’re setting clear directives and clear explanations. We’re going to get to the core issue with a centralized, coordinated effort. Look, today I’m creating a director of Made in America at the White House Office of Management and Budget who will oversee our all-of-government Made in America initiative. That starts with stopping federal agencies from waiving Buy American requirements with impunity, as has been going on. If an agency wants to issue a waiver to say “We’re not going to buy an American product as part of this project; we’re going to buy a foreign product,” they have to come to the White House and explain it to us. We’re going to require that waivers be publicly posted; that is, if someone is seeking a waiver to build this particular vehicle or facility and is going to buy the following foreign parts, that waiver — the request for it — is going to be posted. Then we’ll work with small American manufacturers and businesses to give them a shot to raise their hand and say, “Yeah, I can do that here in my shop, in my town.” It’s about — as you’ve heard me say before, I used to have a friend who was a great athlete, who’d say, “You got to know how to know.” These small businesses don’t even know they can compete for making the product that is attempting to be waived and being able to be bought abroad. And I’m directing the Office of Management and Budget to review waivers to make sure they are only used in very limited circumstances. For example, when there’s an overwhelming national security, humanitarian, or emergency need here in America. This hasn’t happened before. It will happen now. Here’s what else we’re going to be doing. Under the Build Back Better Recovery Plan, we’ll invest hundreds of billions of dollars in buying American products and materials to modernize our infrastructure, and our competitive strength will increase in a competitive world. That means millions of good-paying jobs, using American-made steel and technology, to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our ports, and to make them more climate resilient, as well as making them able to move faster and cheaper and cleaner to transport American-made goods across the country and around the world, making us more competitive. It also means replenishing our stockpiles to enhance our national security. As this pandemic has made clear, we can never again be in a position where we have to rely on a foreign country that doesn’t share our interest in order to protect our people during a national emergency. We need to make our own protective equipment, essential products and supplies. And we’ll work with our allies to make sure they have resilient supply chains as well. We’ll also make historic investments in research and development — hundreds of billions of dollars — to sharpen America’s innovative edge in markets where global leadership is up for grabs — markets like battery technology, artificial intelligence, biotechnology, clean energy. The federal government also owns an enormous fleet of vehicles, which we’re going to replace with clean, electric vehicles made right here in America by American workers, creating millions of jobs — a million autoworker jobs in clean energy — and vehicles that are net-zero emissions. And together, this will be the largest mobilization of public investment in procurement, infrastructure, and R&D since World War Two. And with the executive order I’ll be signing today, we’ll increase Buy American requirements for these kinds of projects and improve the way we measure domestic content requirements. For example, right now, if you manufacture a vehicle for the federal government, you need to show that at least 50 percent of the components of that vehicle were made in America. But because of loopholes that have been expanded over time, you can count the least valuable possible parts as part of that 50 percent to say “Made in America,” while the most valuable parts — the engines, the steel, the glass, the manufac- — are manufactured abroad. So basically — but basically we’re batting zero for two. The content threshold of 50 percent aren’t high enough. And the way we measure the content doesn’t account for U.S. jobs and economic activity. We’re going to change that as well. The executive action I’m signing today will not only require that companies make more of their components in America, but that the value of those components is contributing to our economy, measured by things like a number of American jobs created and/or supported. At the same time, we’ll be committed to working with our trading partners to modernize international trade rules, including those relating to government procurement, to make sure we can use — we can all use our taxpayer dollars to spur investment that promotes growth and resilient supply chains. And here’s what else the action does. When we buy America, we’ll buy from all of America. That includes communities that have historically been left out of government procurement — black, brown, Native American small businesses and entrepreneurs in every region of the country. We will use a national network of manufacturers — called a Manufacturing Extension Partnership — that’s in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, to help government agency connect with new domestic suppliers across the country. This is a critical piece of building our economy back better and including everyone in the deal this time, especially small businesses that are badly hurting in this economy. The executive action I am taking also reiterates my strong support for the Jones Act and American vessels, you know, and our ports, especially those important for America’s clean energy future and the development of offshore renewable energy. I’ll close with this: The reason we need to do this is America can’t sit on the sidelines in the race for the future. Our competitors aren’t waiting. To ensure the future is made in America, we need to win not just the jobs of today, but the jobs and industries of tomorrow. And we know that the middle class built this country, and we also know unions built the middle class. So let’s invest in them once again. I know we’re ready, despite all of the — all we’re facing. I have never been more optimistic about the future of America than I am today. Given even just half a chance, the American people, the American worker, has never, ever let the country down. Imagine if we give them a full chance. That’s what we’re going to do. I’ll stop here and sign the executive order, and then come back and take some of your questions. This executive order is entitled “Ensuring the Future Is Made in America, by Americans — All of American Workers.” . There you go. Now I’d now be happy to take your questions. I believe we should make school classrooms safe and secure for the students, for the teachers, and for the help that’s in those schools maintaining the facilities. We need new ventilation systems in those schools. We need testing for people coming in and out of the classes. We need testing for teachers, as well as students. And we need the capacity — the capacity to know that, in fact, the cic- [sic] — or the circumstance in the school is safe and secure for everyone. For example, there is no reason why the clear guidance will be that every school should be thoroughly sanitized, from the lavatories to the hallways. And so this is about making — and none of the school districts that I’m aware of — there may be some, of public school districts — have insisted that all of those pieces be in place. And, I might add, it’s the same kind of thing I hope we can do with small businesses and businesses, making sure they have the capacity to test their workers when they come in; to make sure they have plastic dividers between their booths in their — in their restaurants, et cetera; to make sure they can sanitize. So it’s not so much about the idea that teachers aren’t going to work. The teachers I know, they want to work. They just want to work in a safe environment and as safe as we can rationally make it. And we can do that, and we should be able to open up every — every school, kindergarten through eighth grade, if, in fact, we administer these tests. And it’ll have the added advantage, I might add, of putting millions of people back to work – all those mothers and fathers that are home taking care of their children, rather than go to work. Even when they can work, they’re not able to do it unless they have the luxury of working distance-wise, like many of us do. They’re not able to do it. And so this is about generating economic growth overall as well. I find that we can both operate in the mutual self-interest of our countries as a New START agreement, and make it clear to Russia that we are — we are very concerned about their behavior, whether it’s Navalny, whether it’s the SolarWinds, or whether it’s the reports of bounties on the heads of Americans in Afghanistan. I have asked the agencies in question to do a thorough — a thorough read for me on every one of those issues, to update me on precisely where they are. And I will not hesitate to raise those issues with the Russians. Well, look, the decision on reconciliation will be one made by the leaders of the House and the Senate. But here’s the deal: I have been doing legislative negotiations for a large part of my life. I know how the system works. And what I’m not — I can’t guarantee anything at all, but I can say that what I’m going to be doing — and we’ve already begun — is making it clear to the leadership in the House and the Senate, as well as the — the group of 16, the group — the bipartisan group, as well as Republican individuals who have an interest in the issues that are in package, and saying “Here’s what I’m doing, and here’s why I want to do it, here’s why I think we need to do it, and what kind of support can or can’t you give to that?” And then we go on to the way in which we deal with legislation all the time. You know, we — we didn’t have any votes for the recovery package when Barack and I came into office. We were short three votes. We didn’t know we had the votes until the day of the –- the day of the — of the — bringing it up. And — but here’s the deal: You know, it’s interesting — and I know you ask a lot of these questions. You know the answers, but you have to — to help educate the public as well; I’m not suggesting you don’t know what I’m about to say. No one wants to give up on their position until there’s no other alternative. They either have to make a decision that they don’t do what — they don’t support what is being proposed, or they insist on what they have, or they let it all go away, fall down. I think we’re far from that point right now. The decision to use reconciliation will depend upon how these negotiations go. And let me make clear about negotiations: I’ve always believed part of negotiation — on the part of a President and/or a chairman of a committee trying to get a major piece of legislation passed — is about consultation. It’s not enough for me just to come up to you and say, “I like this. I expect you to support it.” I want to explain to you why I think it’s so important in this package that we have to provide for money for additional vaccines, why I think it’s so important why we provide for money to extend unemployment benefits, why I think it’s so important that we provide money to provide for the ability of people not to be thrown out of their apartments during this pandemic because they can’t afford their rent, and to make the case to you why I think and what I think the priorities within this piece — that we think the priorities are — I apologize — were within this legislation. And I don’t expect we’ll know whether we have an agreement or to what extent the entire package will be able to pass or not pass until we get right down to the very end of this process, which will be probably in a couple of weeks. But the point is, this is just the process beginning. Hi, Annie. Well, Annie, I think it makes up several of the issues — the points you made. One is: Unity requires you to take away — eliminate the vitriol, make anything that you disagree with about the other person’s personality or their lack of integrity or they’re not decent legislators and the like — so we have to get rid of that. And I think that’s already beginning to change, but God knows where things go, number one. Unity also is: trying to reflect what the majority of the American people — Democrat, Republican, and independent — think is within the fulcrum of what needs to be done to make their lives and the lives of Americans better. For example, if you look at the data — and I’m not claiming the polling data to be exact, but if you look at the data, you have — I think it’s — I hope I’m saying this correct –- you may correct me if I get the number wrong, I think it’s 57, 58 percent of the American people — including Republicans, Democrats, and independents — think that we have to do something about the COVID vaccine; we have to do something about making sure that people who are hurting badly, can’t eat, don’t have food, are in a position where they’re about to be thrown out of their apartments, et cetera, being able to have an opportunity to get a job — that they all think we should be acting, we should be doing more. Unity also is trying to get, at a minimum — if you pass a piece of legislation that breaks down on party lines but it gets passed, it doesn’t mean there wasn’t unity; it just means it wasn’t bipartisan. I’d prefer these things to be bipartisan, because I’m trying to generate some consensus and take sort of the — how can I say it? — the vitriol out of all of this. Because I’m confident — I’m confident, from my discussions, there are a number of Republicans who know we have to do something about the food insecurity for people in this pandemic. I’m confident they know we have to do something about figuring out how to get children back in school. There’s just — there’s easy ways to deal with this. One, if you’re anti-union, you can say it’s all because of teachers. If you want to make a case though that it’s complicated, you say, “Well, what do you have to do to make it safe to get in those schools?” And we’re going to have arguments. For example, you know I proposed that we — because it was bipartisan, I thought it would increase the prospects of passage — the additional $1,400 in direct cash payment to folks. Well, there’s legitimate reason for people to say, “Do you have the lines drawn the exact right way? Should it go to anybody making over X-number of dollars or why?” I’m open to negotiate those things. That’s all. I picked it because I thought it was rational, reasonable, and it had overwhelming bipartisan support in the House when it passed. But this is all a bit of a moving target in terms of the precision with which this goes. You’re asking about unity: 51 votes, bipartisan, et cetera. The other piece of this is that the one thing that gives me hope that we’re not only going to, sort of, stay away from the ad hominem attacks on one another, is that there is an overwhelming consensus among the major economists at home and in the world that the way to avoid a deeper, deeper, deeper recession, moving in the direction of losing our competitive capacity, is to spend money now to — from — from across the board, every major institution has said, “If we don’t invest now, we’re going to lose so much altitude, in terms of our employment base and our economic growth, it’s going to be harder to reestablish it.” We can afford to do it now. As a matter of fact, the — I think the response has been, “We can’t afford not to invest now. We can’t afford to fail to invest now.” And I think there’s a growing realization of that on the part of all but some very, very hard-edged partisans, maybe on both sides, but I think there is a growing consensus. Whether we get it all done exactly the way I want it remains to be seen, but I’m confident that we can work our way through. We have to work our way through because, as I’ve said 100 times, there is no ability in a democracy for it to function without the ability to reach consensus. Other- — otherwise it just becomes executive fiat or battleground issues that are — get us virtually nowhere. I don’t want to hold the — my colleague may know, the Vice President — but, you know, I think there were very few debates on the Senate floor the whole last year — — on almost any issue. Well, that benefits no one. It doesn’t inform anybody. It doesn’t allow the public to make judgments about who they think is right or wrong. So I am — I am optimistic that it may take some time, but over the year, the way — if we treat each other with respect — and we’re going to argue like hell. I’m confident of that. Believe me, I know that. I’ve been there. But I think we can do it in a way that we can get things done for the American people. Josh, they don’t trust you with the mic, huh? I don’t know, man. Well, I’ll try to answer the three parts to your question as I heard them. One, time is of the essence. Time is of the essence. And I must tell you, I’m reluctant to cherry pick and take out one or two items here, and then have to go through it again to — because these all are kind of — they go, sort of, hand in glove, each of these issues. Number one. Number two, we are optimistic that we will have enough vaccine and in very short order. We, as you know, we came in office without knowledge of how much vaccine was held — being held in abeyance or available. Now that we’re here — we’ve been around a week or so — we now have that. And we’ve gotten commitments from some of the producers that they will, in fact, produce more vaccine in a relatively short period of time and then continue that down the road. So I’m quite confident that we will be in a position, within the next three weeks or so, to be vaccinating people at the range of a million a day or in excess of that. That is my — I promised that we would get at least 100 million vaccinations — that’s not people, because sometimes you need more than one shot of the vaccination. But 100,000 — 100 million shots in people’s arms of the vaccine. I think, with the grace of God, and the goodwill of the neighbor, and the creek not rising, as the old saying goes, I think we may be able to get that to 150 thou- — 1.5 million a day, rather than 1 million a day. But we have to meet that goal of a million a day. And everything points that we’re going to have: A, the — enough vaccine; B, enough syringes and all the paraphernalia needed to store, keep, inject, move into your arm the vaccine; three, a number of vaccinators, people administering the vaccine, which is not an easy task of those who have — those facilities, like the nursing homes and hospitals — they have people do it, but they don’t have the capacity to do everyone. And so I think we’re going to have — we’re leaning hard on — into areas where we can produce more vaccinators. We feel confident we can do that. And thirdly, it’s really important that we have the fora, the place, the facility, the circumstance where people can show up, stand in line, and get their vaccine without having to stand in line for eight hours — being able to pick up the phone, call the pharmacy, and get your name on the list, et cetera. All those mechanical things are really — they sound simple, but they’re all consequential when we’re trying to get out a minimum of 100 million vaccinations in 100 days and move in the direction where we are well beyond that in the next 100 days so we can get to the point where we reach herd immunity in a country of over 300 million people. Did that answer your question? Oh, I — no, I think it’ll be this spring. I think we’ll be able to do that this spring. And — but it’s going to be a logistical challenge that exceeds anything we’ve ever tried in this country, but I think we can do that. I feel confident that, by summer, we’re going to be well on our way to heading toward herd immunity and increasing the access for people who aren’t on the first — aren’t on the list, all the way going down to children and how we deal with that. But I feel good about where we’re going, and I think we can get it done. Now, wait, wait, wait. I know he always asks me tough questions, and he always has an edge to them, but I like him anyway. So go ahead and answer — ask the question. No, I think we’ll get there before that. I said, “I hope…” — I misspoke. I hope we’ll be able to increase as we go on until we get to the million-five a day. That’s my ex- — my hope. Well, I’m going to shut down the virus, but not — I never said I’d do it in two months. I said it took a long time to get here; it’s going take a long time to beat it. And so we have millions of people out there who are — who have the virus. We’re just, for the first day, I think — correct me if I’m wrong; I’ve been doing other things this morning, speaking with foreign leaders. But one of the things — I think this is one of the first days that the number has actually come down — the number of deaths — and the number on a daily basis, and the number of hospitalizations, et cetera. It’s going to take time. It’s going to take a heck of a lot of time. And we still have — as Dr. Fauci constantly points out, it’s one thing when we have mass — how can I say it politely? — mass disregard of the warnings about not wearing masks and wearing masks, and social distancing and failure to social distance, and people getting together on holidays in ways that weren’t recommended, et cetera. We see — the first thing that happens is we see the number of infections go up. Then you see the hospitalizations go up. Then you see the deaths go up. And so we’re in this for a while. I mean, we’re — what are we now? At about 410,000 deaths. And there’s going to be more. The prediction, as I said from the very beginning to getting here as — after being sworn in, was — the predictions were: We’re going to see somewhere between a total of 600,000 and 660,000 deaths before we begin to turn the corner in a major way. So — and again, remember: The vaccine — most of the people taking the vaccine — a vast, significant number — required two shots, and they’re an average of three weeks apart. And it takes time for it to be sure that you’re — you get to that 95 percent assurance rate. And so it’s beginning to move. But I’m confident we will beat this. We will beat this. But we’re still going to be talking about this in the summer. We’re still going to be dealing with this issue in the — in early fall. And last point I’ll make — and I know you’re tired of hearing me saying it, particularly — you may be tired of me saying it. And that is that if we wear masks between now and the end of April, the experts tell us we can save 50,000 lives — 50,000 people who otherwise would die. Thank you so very much. Well, folks, thank you very much for being here. I’m about to sign an executive order, but I want to begin by thanking the Vice President for helping this, but also thank Chairman Milley, who has been a great, great help, and then also the soon-to-be Secretary of Defense, who, when we can finish this, will be sworn in in a moment. And so, don’t say anything to cause him to change his mind, okay? But all kidding aside, this is reinstating a position that previous commanders and — as well as the Secretaries have supported. And what I’m doing is enabling all qualified Americans to serve their country in uniform, and essentially restoring the situation as it existed before, with transgender personnel, if qualified in every other way, can serve their government in the United States military. So that’s what I’m about to sign. And I’m going to get a chance, I’m told, a little later on another matter — later this afternoon when I speak to another order — to answer all your questions on a whole range of things. But I’m going to be going to the swearing-in shortly after this. Okay? Thank you, again. All right. Thank you. Good afternoon, folks. Vice President Harris and I just received a briefing from our economic team, and we remain in a once-in-a-century public health crisis that’s led to the most unequal job and economic crisis in modern history. And the crisis is only deepening. It’s not getting better; it’s deepening. Yesterday, we learned that 900,000 more Americans filed for unemployment — 900,000. They join millions of Americans who, through no fault of their own, have lost the dignity and respect that comes with a job and a paycheck. So many of them never thought they’d ever be out of work in the first place. And just like my dad did when he was — he used to lie awake at night when I was a kid, staring at the ceiling, unable to sleep because he worried about whether or not he’s about to lose his healthcare, or whether we were going to be — or have the money to pay the mortgage because of the economic circumstance he was in. And now, a lot of these folks are facing eviction, or waiting hours in their cars — literally hours in their cars, waiting to be able to feed their children as they drive up to a food bank. It’s the United States of America and they’re waiting to feed their kids. Folks who are able to still keep their job, many have seen their paychecks reduced, and they’ve — and they’re barely hanging on, and wondering what’s next. Sometimes the anxiety about what’s going to happen next is more consequential than what actually happened. But this is happening today, in America, and this cannot be who we are as a country. These are not the values of our nation. We cannot, will not let people go hungry. We cannot let people be evicted because of nothing they did themselves. They cannot watch people lose their jobs. And we have to act. We have to act now. It’s not just to meet the moral obligation to treat our fellow Americans with the dignity and respect they deserve; this is an economic imperative. A growing economic consensus that we must act decisively and boldly to grow the economy for all Americans, not just for tomorrow, but in the future. There’s a growing chorus of top economic — top economists that agree that in this moment of crisis, with this — with the interest rates as low as they are — historic lows — it is smart fiscal investment, including deficit spending. And they’re more urgent than ever. You know, and that return on these investments and jobs and racial equity is going to prevent long-term economic damage and benefits that are going to far surpass the cost. If we don’t act, the rest of the world is not standing still, in terms of the competitive advantage and the competitive possibilities, relative to us. That our debt situation will be more stable and not less stable, according to these economists. And that such investments in our people is going to strengthen our economic competitiveness as a nation and help us outcompete our competitors in the global economy, because we’re going to grow the economy with these investments. While the COVID-19 package that passed in December was a first step, as I said at the time, it’s just a down payment. We need more action, and we need to move fast. Last week, I laid out a two-step plan of rescue and recovery to get through the crisis and to a better and stronger and more secure America. The first step of our American Rescue Plan is a plan to tackle the pandemic and get direct financial relief to Americans who need it the most. You know, in just a few days — it’s just been a few days since I outlined this plan — it’s received bipartisan support from a majority of American mayors and governors. Businesses and labor organizations have together welcomed it as an urgent action that’s needed. Even Wall Street firms have underscored its importance. In fact, in a — an analysis by Moody’s estimates that if we passed our America Rescue Plan, the economy would create 7.5 million jobs just in this year alone. That would be on the way to the more than 18 million — I think it was 18,600,000 jobs that they believe would be created over the four-year period, with our Build Back Better Recovery Plan. And with our America Rescue Plan, our economy would return to full employment a full year faster than without the plan. Even President Trump’s — President Trump’s now — not some liberal organization — Presidents Trump’s top former economic adviser, Kevin Hassett, said, quote, he “absolutely is in favor” of this rescue plan. This almost doesn’t have a partisan piece to it. We’re seeing the support because this plan takes a step that we so urgently need. More than just a step, a number of steps. It funds big parts of the COVID-19 National Strategy that I released yesterday — we released yesterday. Our national strategy puts on — us on a war footing to aggressively speed up our COVID-19 response, especially on vaccines and testing and reopening our schools. I found it fascinating — yesterday the press asked the question: Is, you know, 100 million enough? A week before, they were saying, “Biden, are you crazy? You can’t do 100 million in a hundred days.” Well, we’re going to, God willing, not only do 100 million, we’re going to do more than that. But this is — we have to do this. We have to move. The American Rescue Plan also includes economic relief for most Americans who are in need. We’re going to finish the job of getting a total of $2,000 in direct payments to folks. Six hundred dollars, which was already passed, is simply not enough if you still have to choose between paying your rent and putting food on the table. We’ll extend unemployment insurance benefits for millions of workers, beyond the deadline that is now set. It means that 16 million Americans who are currently relying on unemployment benefits while they look for work can count on these checks continuing to be there in the middle of this crisis. The American Rescue Plan also addresses the growing housing crisis in America. Approximately 14 million Americans — 14 million — have fallen behind on rent, and many risk eviction. If we fail to act, there’ll be a wave of evictions and foreclosures in the coming months as this pandemic rages on, because there’s nothing we can do to change the trajectory of the pandemic in the next several months. So, look, this would overwhelm emergency shelters and increase COVID-19 infections as people have nowhere to go and are socially — can’t socially distance. The American Rescue Plan asks Congress to provide rental assistance for millions of hard-hit families and tenants. This will also be a bridge to economic recovery for countless mom-and-pop landlords who can’t afford not to have the rent. But they can’t wait. So, on Inauguration Day, I directed my administration to extend nationwide restrictions on evictions and foreclosures. These crises are straining the budgets of states and cities and in tribal communities that are forced to consider layoffs and service reductions among essential workers. Police officers, firefighters, first responders, nurses are all at the risk of losing their jobs. Over the last year, more than 600,000 educators have lost their jobs in the cities and towns. The American Rescue Plan will provide emergency funding to keep these essential workers on the job and maintain essential services. Look, it will also help small businesses that are the engines of our economic growth. When you say “small business,” most people think the major corporate entities are the ones that hire everybody. These small businesses are the glue that hold — and they’re important — but these small businesses hold the community — are the glue that hold these communities together. They are hurting badly, and they account for nearly half of the entire U.S. workforce. Nearly half. Our rescue plan will provide flexible grants to help the hardest-hit small businesses survive the pandemic and low-cost capital to help entrepreneurs of all backgrounds create and maintain jobs, plus provide essential goods and services that communities so desperately depend on. Look, our recovery plan also calls for an increase in the minimum wage, at 15 — at least $15.00 an hour. No one in America should work 40 hours a week making below the poverty line. Fifteen dollars gets people above the poverty line. We have so many millions of people working 40 hours a week — working — and some with two jobs, and they’re still below the poverty line. Our plan includes access to affordable childcare that’s going to enable parents, particularly women, to get back to work — millions who are not working now because they don’t have that care. All told, the American Rescue Plan would lift 12 million Americans out of poverty and cut child poverty in half. That’s 5 million children lifted out of poverty. Our plan would reduce poverty in the black community by one third and reduce poverty in the Hispanic community by almost 40 percent. I look forward to working with members of Congress of both parties to move quickly to get this American Rescue Plan to the American people. And then we can move with equal urgency and bipartisanship to the second step of our economic plan, the Build Back Better — the recovery plan. It’s a plan that will make historic investments in infrastructure, manufacturing, innovation, research and development, and clean energy, and so much more that’s going to create millions more jobs — good-paying jobs, not minimum wage jobs. But while we work with members of both parties in the Congress, there are steps that we can and must take right now. For example, on Inauguration Day, I directed my administration to pause student loan repayments for interest for — the interest payments for Americans with federal student loans until at least September, so they’re not going to have to pay until September. They still pay the bill, as it stands now, but they will not accrue interest, and they don’t have to pay — begin to pay until September. And we may have to look beyond that, I might add. Today, I’m signing an executive order that directs the whole-of-government — a whole-of-government effort to help millions of Americans who are badly hurting. It requires all federal agencies to do what they can do to provide relief to families, small businesses, and communities. And in the days ahead, I expect agencies to act. Let me touch on two ways these actions can help change Americans lives. We need to tackle the growing hunger crisis in America. One in seven households in America — one in seven — more than one in five black and Latino households in America report they do not have enough food to eat. That includes nearly 30 million adults and as many as 12 million children. And again, they’re in a spec- — in this situation through no fault of their own. It’s unconscionable. The American Rescue Plan provides additional emergency food and nutrition assistance for tens of millions of children and families to address this crisis. But families literally can’t wait another day. As a result of the executive order I’m going to shortly sign, the Department of Agriculture will consider taking immediate steps to make it easier for the hardest-hit families to enroll and claim more generous benefits in the critical food and nutrition assistance area. This is going to help tens of millions of families, especially those who can’t provide meals for their kids, who are learning remotely at home, are not receiving the regular meal plans that they’d have at school for breakfast or lunch. It’s going to also — and we also need to protect the health and safety of the American worker. Right now, approximately 40 percent of households in America have at least one member with a preexisting condition. Just imagine: You’re out of work through no fault of your own. You file for unemployment while you’re looking for a job. You find one, and you get an offer. But then you find out there’s a high risk of you getting infected with COVID-19 because of your condition. You and your loved one — and you and your loved ones have ever even greater risk of death and serious illness because of the preexisting conditions, so you turn it down. Right now, if you did that, you could be denied unemployment insurance because you’re offered a job and you didn’t take it. It’s wrong. No one should have to choose between their livelihoods and their own health or the health of their loved ones in the middle of a deadly pandemic. Because of the executive order I’m about to sign, I expect the Department of Labor to guarantee the right to refuse unemployment — the employment that will jeopardize your health, and if you do so, you’ll still be able to qualify for the insurance. That’s a judgment the Labor Department will make. Look, there are just two consequential ways that the action I’m taking today will help people in need. Another — another way to help approximately 2 million veterans maintain their financial footing: by pausing federal collections on overpayments and debts. Another makes sure that federal contractors are receiving taxpayer dollars, provide their workers with the pay and benefits they deserve. These are places where federal tax dollars are administered — are being made available to build things from ships to staircases. And we let out — the federal government lets the contract — and we’re going to make sure that they buy American and are made in America. And here’s another: Right now, there are up to 8 million people that are eligible for direct payments from the CARES Act and the relief bill passed in December. They are entitled to those payments, but there’s not an easy way for those folks to assess — access them. So we’re making it a priority today to fix that problem and get them relief they’re entitled to. Look, I’m going to close and summarize this way: A lot of America is hurting. The virus is surging. We’re 400,000 dead, expected to reach well over 600,000. Families are going hungry. People are at risk of being evicted. Job losses are mounting again. We need to act. No matter how you look at it, we need to act. If — if we act now, our economy will be stronger in both the short and long run. That’s what economists — left, right, and center — are telling us, both liberal and conservative. We’ll be better and stronger across the board. If we act now, we’ll be better able to compete with the world. If we act now, we’ll be better able to meet our moral obligations to one another as Americans. I don’t believe the people of this country just want to stand by and watch their friends and their neighbors, coworkers, fellow Americans go hungry, lose their homes, or lose their sense of dignity and hope and respect. I don’t believe that — especially in the middle of a pandemic that’s so weakened and wrecked [sic] so much havoc and caused so much pain on America. That’s not who we are. The bottom line is this: We’re in a national emergency, and we need to act like we’re in a national emergency. So we’ve got to move with everything we’ve got, and we’ve got to do it together. I don’t believe Democrats or Republicans are going hungry and losing jobs; I believe Americans are going hungry and losing their jobs. And we have the tools to fix it. We have the tools to get through this. We have the tools to get this virus under control and our economy back on track. And we have the tools to help people. So let’s use the tools, all of them. Use them now. So I’m going to sign this executive order, but let me conclude again by saying: Folks, this is one of the cases where business, labor, Wall Street, Main Street, liberal, conservative, economists know we have to act now, not only to help who are in need now, but to allow us to be in the competitive position worldwide and be the leader of the world economy in the next year, and two, and three, and going forward. So, thank you. I’m going to sign this executive order. The first one is the economic relief related to COVID-19 pandemic. The second one is protection — protecting the federal workforce. Thank you very much. I haven’t heard the detail of it, but I do think that having some time to get our administration up and running, we — they — I want to thank the Senate for passing our Secretary of Defense. It looks like our Secretary of Treasury, it looks like our Secretary of State is in place. So the more time we have to get up and running and meet these crises, the better. Chief Justice Roberts, Vice President Harris, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer, Leader McConnell, Vice President Pence, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans. This is America’s day. This is democracy’s day. A day of history and hope. Of renewal and resolve. Through a crucible for the ages America has been tested anew and America has risen to the challenge. Today, we celebrate the triumph not of a candidate, but of a cause, the cause of democracy. The will of the people has been heard and the will of the people has been heeded. We have learned again that democracy is precious. Democracy is fragile. And at this hour, my friends, democracy has prevailed. So now, on this hallowed ground where just days ago violence sought to shake this Capitol’s very foundation, we come together as one nation, under God, indivisible, to carry out the peaceful transfer of power as we have for more than two centuries. We look ahead in our uniquely American way – restless, bold, optimistic – and set our sights on the nation we know we can be and we must be. I thank my predecessors of both parties for their presence here. I thank them from the bottom of my heart. You know the resilience of our Constitution and the strength of our nation. As does President Carter, who I spoke to last night but who cannot be with us today, but whom we salute for his lifetime of service. I have just taken the sacred oath each of these patriots took — an oath first sworn by George Washington. But the American story depends not on any one of us, not on some of us, but on all of us. On “We the People” who seek a more perfect Union. This is a great nation and we are a good people. Over the centuries through storm and strife, in peace and in war, we have come so far. But we still have far to go. We will press forward with speed and urgency, for we have much to do in this winter of peril and possibility. Much to repair. Much to restore. Much to heal. Much to build. And much to gain. Few periods in our nation’s history have been more challenging or difficult than the one we’re in now. A once-in-a-century virus silently stalks the country. It’s taken as many lives in one year as America lost in all of World War II. Millions of jobs have been lost. Hundreds of thousands of businesses closed. A cry for racial justice some 400 years in the making moves us. The dream of justice for all will be deferred no longer. A cry for survival comes from the planet itself. A cry that can’t be any more desperate or any more clear. And now, a rise in political extremism, white supremacy, domestic terrorism that we must confront and we will defeat. To overcome these challenges – to restore the soul and to secure the future of America – requires more than words. It requires that most elusive of things in a democracy: Unity. Unity. In another January in Washington, on New Year’s Day 1863, Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. When he put pen to paper, the President said, “If my name ever goes down into history it will be for this act and my whole soul is in it.” My whole soul is in it. Today, on this January day, my whole soul is in this: Bringing America together. Uniting our people. And uniting our nation. I ask every American to join me in this cause. Uniting to fight the common foes we face: Anger, resentment, hatred. Extremism, lawlessness, violence. Disease, joblessness, hopelessness. With unity we can do great things. Important things. We can right wrongs. We can put people to work in good jobs. We can teach our children in safe schools. We can overcome this deadly virus. We can reward work, rebuild the middle class, and make health care secure for all. We can deliver racial justice. We can make America, once again, the leading force for good in the world. I know speaking of unity can sound to some like a foolish fantasy. I know the forces that divide us are deep and they are real. But I also know they are not new. Our history has been a constant struggle between the American ideal that we are all created equal and the harsh, ugly reality that racism, nativism, fear, and demonization have long torn us apart. The battle is perennial. Victory is never assured. Through the Civil War, the Great Depression, World War, 9/11, through struggle, sacrifice, and setbacks, our “better angels” have always prevailed. In each of these moments, enough of us came together to carry all of us forward. And, we can do so now. History, faith, and reason show the way, the way of unity. We can see each other not as adversaries but as neighbors. We can treat each other with dignity and respect. We can join forces, stop the shouting, and lower the temperature. For without unity, there is no peace, only bitterness and fury. No progress, only exhausting outrage. No nation, only a state of chaos. This is our historic moment of crisis and challenge, and unity is the path forward. And, we must meet this moment as the United States of America. If we do that, I guarantee you, we will not fail. We have never, ever, ever failed in America when we have acted together. And so today, at this time and in this place, let us start afresh. All of us. Let us listen to one another. Hear one another. See one another. Show respect to one another. Politics need not be a raging fire destroying everything in its path. Every disagreement doesn’t have to be a cause for total war. And, we must reject a culture in which facts themselves are manipulated and even manufactured. My fellow Americans, we have to be different than this. America has to be better than this. And, I believe America is better than this. Just look around. Here we stand, in the shadow of a Capitol dome that was completed amid the Civil War, when the Union itself hung in the balance. Yet we endured and we prevailed. Here we stand looking out to the great Mall where Dr. King spoke of his dream. Here we stand, where 108 years ago at another inaugural, thousands of protestors tried to block brave women from marching for the right to vote. Today, we mark the swearing-in of the first woman in American history elected to national office – Vice President Kamala Harris. Don’t tell me things can’t change. Here we stand across the Potomac from Arlington National Cemetery, where heroes who gave the last full measure of devotion rest in eternal peace. And here we stand, just days after a riotous mob thought they could use violence to silence the will of the people, to stop the work of our democracy, and to drive us from this sacred ground. That did not happen. It will never happen. Not today. Not tomorrow. Not ever. To all those who supported our campaign I am humbled by the faith you have placed in us. To all those who did not support us, let me say this: Hear me out as we move forward. Take a measure of me and my heart. And if you still disagree, so be it. That’s democracy. That’s America. The right to dissent peaceably, within the guardrails of our Republic, is perhaps our nation’s greatest strength. Yet hear me clearly: Disagreement must not lead to disunion. And I pledge this to you: I will be a President for all Americans. I will fight as hard for those who did not support me as for those who did. Many centuries ago, Saint Augustine, a saint of my church, wrote that a people was a multitude defined by the common objects of their love. What are the common objects we love that define us as Americans? I think I know. Opportunity. Security. Liberty. Dignity. Respect. Honor. And, yes, the truth. Recent weeks and months have taught us a painful lesson. There is truth and there are lies. Lies told for power and for profit. And each of us has a duty and responsibility, as citizens, as Americans, and especially as leaders – leaders who have pledged to honor our Constitution and protect our nation — to defend the truth and to defeat the lies. I understand that many Americans view the future with some fear and trepidation. I understand they worry about their jobs, about taking care of their families, about what comes next. I get it. But the answer is not to turn inward, to retreat into competing factions, distrusting those who don’t look like you do, or worship the way you do, or don’t get their news from the same sources you do. We must end this uncivil war that pits red against blue, rural versus urban, conservative versus liberal. We can do this if we open our souls instead of hardening our hearts. If we show a little tolerance and humility. If we’re willing to stand in the other person’s shoes just for a moment. Because here is the thing about life: There is no accounting for what fate will deal you. There are some days when we need a hand. There are other days when we’re called on to lend one. That is how we must be with one another. And, if we are this way, our country will be stronger, more prosperous, more ready for the future. My fellow Americans, in the work ahead of us, we will need each other. We will need all our strength to persevere through this dark winter. We are entering what may well be the toughest and deadliest period of the virus. We must set aside the politics and finally face this pandemic as one nation. I promise you this: as the Bible says weeping may endure for a night but joy cometh in the morning. We will get through this, together The world is watching today. So here is my message to those beyond our borders: America has been tested and we have come out stronger for it. We will repair our alliances and engage with the world once again. Not to meet yesterday’s challenges, but today’s and tomorrow’s. We will lead not merely by the example of our power but by the power of our example. We will be a strong and trusted partner for peace, progress, and security. We have been through so much in this nation. And, in my first act as President, I would like to ask you to join me in a moment of silent prayer to remember all those we lost this past year to the pandemic. To those 400,000 fellow Americans – mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, sons and daughters, friends, neighbors, and co-workers. We will honor them by becoming the people and nation we know we can and should be. Let us say a silent prayer for those who lost their lives, for those they left behind, and for our country. Amen. This is a time of testing. We face an attack on democracy and on truth. A raging virus. Growing inequity. The sting of systemic racism. A climate in crisis. America’s role in the world. Any one of these would be enough to challenge us in profound ways. But the fact is we face them all at once, presenting this nation with the gravest of responsibilities. Now we must step up. All of us. It is a time for boldness, for there is so much to do. And, this is certain. We will be judged, you and I, for how we resolve the cascading crises of our era. Will we rise to the occasion? Will we master this rare and difficult hour? Will we meet our obligations and pass along a new and better world for our children? I believe we must and I believe we will. And when we do, we will write the next chapter in the American story. It’s a story that might sound something like a song that means a lot to me. It’s called “American Anthem” and there is one verse stands out for me: “The work and prayers of centuries have brought us to this day What shall be our legacy? What will our children say?… Let me know in my heart When my days are through America America I gave my best to you.” Let us add our own work and prayers to the unfolding story of our nation. If we do this then when our days are through our children and our children’s children will say of us they gave their best. They did their duty. They healed a broken land. My fellow Americans, I close today where I began, with a sacred oath. Before God and all of you I give you my word. I will always level with you. I will defend the Constitution. I will defend our democracy. I will defend America. I will give my all in your service thinking not of power, but of possibilities. Not of personal interest, but of the public good. And together, we shall write an American story of hope, not fear. Of unity, not division. Of light, not darkness. An American story of decency and dignity. Of love and of healing. Of greatness and of goodness. May this be the story that guides us. The story that inspires us. The story that tells ages yet to come that we answered the call of history. We met the moment. That democracy and hope, truth and justice, did not die on our watch but thrived. That our America secured liberty at home and stood once again as a beacon to the world. That is what we owe our forebearers, one another, and generations to follow. So, with purpose and resolve we turn to the tasks of our time. Sustained by faith. Driven by conviction. And, devoted to one another and to this country we love with all our hearts. May God bless America and may God protect our troops. Thank you, America. 12:13 pm EST