Well, thank you very much everyone. This is a great honor. And I see you have social distance on your mind and that’s a very good thing. Jovita, congratulations. Tremendous job you’re doing. I want to thank everyone for being at the White House — a very special house, a very special place. No matter where you go in the world, they love the White House. And being here in the East Room of the White House in particular, where so many important functions have taken place over the years. And today, we’re really celebrating American workers and small businesses. And we’ve done a job for you and we’re going to make it so, as we open up our country, you’re going to be in good shape, as opposed to be either losing your business or, “How do we get some people to work here?” Especially since your employees were so good over the years and those are the ones you wanted, so we made that possible for you. We’re delighted to be joined this afternoon by representatives of several incredible small businesses from across our country. Also with us are Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin — Steve, thank you very much — ; and SBA Administrator — you’ve been busy, Steve, by the way? Huh? A little bit, right? Broke every record in the book. And SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza. Thank you, Jovita. Have you gone to sleep in the last two weeks? I don’t think so. Right? You broke every single lending record: numbers of loans, amount of loans. Small business — it’s actually a very big business, when you think about it. Thank you very much, Jovita. Great job. As our nation battles against this terrible scourge, we continue to pray for the victims, as well as for those Americans who are grieving their lost ones and their loved ones. There’s never been anything like this. We suffer with one heart, but we will prevail. We’re coming back and we’re coming back strong. We built the greatest economy anywhere in the world. And two months ago — and we’re going to build it again. We’re going to build it fast. It’s going to go very quickly. And, Larry, thank you for being here very much. It’s — you see what’s going to happen. I think you have the same feeling as I do: It’s going to come back very fast. Now that our experts believe the worst days of the pandemic are behind us, Americans are looking forward to the safe and rapid reopening of our country. Throughout this ordeal, millions of hardworking Americans have been asked to really make tremendous, tremendous sacrifices. It’s sacrifices like nobody thought would even be possible. Nobody thought we’d ever be talking about something like this. This virus has inflicted an enormous and painful toll on our nation’s workers and small businesses. That’s why, last month, I asked Congress to pass the Paycheck Protection Program, giving small businesses emergency economic relief to keep workers on the payroll. Four weeks ago, I was proud to sign it into law. We did that at a great ceremony with many of the people here and the officials here. And it was something. And I can tell you — I’m going to ask Steve to say a few words — but the kind of numbers and the kind of jobs they’ve done and the kind of jobs that have also been saved, it’s incredible. You’ll be seeing that in the coming weeks. The Treasury Department and the Small Business Administration launched the program in record-breaking time — just one week. And in the 14 days following its launch, we processed as many loans as the SBA would typically process in over 14 years. So in 14 days, they did more work and more loans, both in terms of applications and in terms of dollar amount, than they did in 14 years. Fourteen days, fourteen years — easy one to remember, right? That’s some record. The first round of funding provided more than 1.6 million small businesses with over $340 billion so that American workers can retain their jobs, receive their paychecks, and help our economy take off quickly once America reopens for business, which is happening right now as we sit. We’re going to be all set. You all ready? Huh? I can — I know you are. I talked to you back there. You’re ready. You folks are ready. Our swift action supported or saved 30 million American jobs at least. And last week, Congress answered our call to replenish the program, and I was honored to sign an additional $320 billion for American workers into law. At least $60 billion are reserved for community financial institutions, including those that serve minority and distressed communities. And that’s also, when you think — it’s African American communities, it’s Hispanic American communities, it’s Asian American communities. We began accepting applications for the second round of funding yesterday. Demand is extraordinarily high, and there are already twice as many users accessing the system as on any day under the first round. And one of the things that the Secretary of the Treasury told me is that the amounts are much more loans at much smaller amounts. And we like to hear that because we’re looking at the small amounts — the smaller businesses — and that’s what we want. Nonetheless, we’re processing loans at a pace never achieved before. In the first 24 hours of the second round of funding, we’ve handled over 30 percent more loans than any previous day of the program. So far, we’ve processed an amazing 450,000 loans, totaling over $50 billion. That’s in phase two. That’s incredible. Along with Administrator Carranza and Secretary Mnuchin, Ivanka has played an essential role in spearheading this important program. Incredible role. That’s what she wants to do: She wants to help people. From the beginning of my administration, Ivanka has used her experience as an entrepreneur to fight for the American worker. She has created many jobs. That’s what she did when she first came in. She just wanted people to be able to get jobs and job training. Went to the biggest companies anywhere in the world that are located in our country, and they would take hundreds of thousands of people and train them. And I think you got up to almost 15 million people, right? Fifteen million. She started off with a goal of 500,000. She wanted to get 500,000 and she is now on almost 15 million people. And I’d like to ask, if I might, Ivanka, to say a few words as to what’s exactly happening today, what’s exact — what’s happening over the next week, and what her views are for what’s going to happen over the next period of time. It’s going to be something — I think is going to be very special, and bigger and better than anybody really understands. Let’s see if I’m right about that. Ivanka, please. Great. Thank you very much, Michael. Thank you. Fantastic. Thank you very much. That’s better than we did. Much better, Michael. You did a better job. Thank you very much. That’s beautiful. Stick around. You’ll get to hear the press ask some questions and they’ll probably be a little bit nicer if you’re in the audience. Right, Amy? That’s pretty good. Also, I’d like to ask Tony Stafford, chief — very — sort of the boss, I guess you could say — chef and founder. You’re the boss, right? Wouldn’t you say? Of Ford’s Fish Shack. And I hear it’s good stuff. How about explaining? Please. Best? Oh, I’ll have it. Be careful. Thank you. Come on up, please. Fantastic. Thank you very much. We’re going to help you. Is he a great chef or a good chef? Good. That’s great. That’s a great story. Your mother lives with you, five children. That’s a great story. So that was a rough day, right? Wasn’t it, huh? It never happened to you before probably. Yeah. It happened to a lot of people it never happened before. So — but we’re bringing it all back. You know, there have been a couple of places that have opened. And I don’t know if you saw this, Tony — they have some restaurants and they have lines that are very long to get in. People want to be back. They want to come back. We’re going to bring our country back. They want to get to work. And I know you were in that category very much. So it’s great. Thank you, fellas, very much. Jackie Krick, CEO and Founder of ECU Communications. Jackie, please. I’ll move that down, Jackie. I’ll move that down a little bit. I’ll move that down a little bit. I’ll get in trouble for touching it. See? They’ll say, “He touched the microphone.” What am I going to do? Great job. Thank you, Jackie. Great job. Chris Stansbury, co-founder and partner, West Virginia Eye Consultants. I like West Virginia, you know. I like it. We’ll put that up. I like it. They like me, too. Wow. Fantastic. So you do eye examinations, Doctor? And you do glasses and all of that? I may have to see you. Okay? I guarantee you’re probably better than these high-priced people. I used to see the highest price, and they were not the best. I’ll bet you’re better than all of them. So I may have to see you, Doctor. I’m serious about it. We can do something quickly, all right? You go — you move quickly too, right? No long meetings? Good. I may have to see you, Doctor. Thank you. Tisa Clark, President and CEO, J.D. Clark Professional Services. J.D. Clark. Hi, come on up. Have you ever thought about running for office? You could do it very easily. You are something. That’s a very good job. Thank you very much. Luke Bernstein, executive vice president, chief retail officer, and chief communications officer for Orrstown Bank. Come up, Luke. Thank you very much, Luke. That’s a beautiful job. Brandon Hutson, president, Ed and Jim’s Body Shop. I know what that means. I’ll bet you fix beautiful cars. You make them beautiful, right? I’ll bet you do. Please come up. Good. Thank you. And what do you do with cars? Explain maybe. Can you generally fix — like, when there’s a problem with a car, can you generally fix it without sending for new pieces? Or do you generally have to put new pieces on if it’s a big collision? Well, now it’s going to be great. After today, you’ll have a lot of customers too. Thank you very much. Thank you, Brandon. Thank you, Brandon. Ali Mills, executive vice president, Plum Contracting, Inc. Would you like to have — come. Come on up here. He was so good. Put that — put that mask on, the way you had it. It was — . Good. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you. I was with Governor Ron DeSantis of Florida, which is interesting from your standpoint because we — we talked about the business that you’re in. And he noticed that, right into the immediate shutdown, he noticed there was very few cars on the road. And he did very opposite of what a lot of governors did. He said, “This is a great time to fix our roads and highways.” And I said — as soon as he said it — this was in the Oval Office, two hours ago — he said, “I noticed there was very few cars, and isn’t that better than fixing them during rush hour or when there’s traffic and when it’s booming?” — like hopefully, over the next few months, it’s going to be again, just like it was before, the best we’ve ever had. And then we had to close it down. So he’s fixing roads and bridges and doing a tremendous amount of work during this period of time. And I thought it was very smart. So it’s a little bit the opposite, but to each his own, right? To each his own. But it made a lot of sense to me when I heard it. I’d like to ask Secretary Mnuchin to come up and explain just a little bit about how well it’s going, how — the kind of numbers, the kind of records, to a point where there’s never been anything like this — loans coming in. And how the loans are actually smaller than in phase one, and that makes us happy because that means smaller businesses, and that’s where we — that’s what we’re looking at. That’s what we’re aiming at this time. Please, Steve. Thank you very much, Steve. Very much. And on the enhanced — — thank you. And, Steve, on the enhanced payments, we’re really looking to the state to give that out. And, unfortunately, some of the states have very old computerized equipment from many generations ago, but they have the money to give out, and they’ll give it out as it comes. And hopefully, they’ll be able to do the job. Some states have been very efficient and others have had a hard time. But you’ll work with the ones that have had a hard time. But we’re relying on the states, and we are relying on the states to get it out as quickly as they can — considering, especially, some of the equipment they have. Maybe now they’ll be able to buy new equipment — right? When we get all finished, we’ll have nice, new computerized equipment so they can do it. With that, if you’d like to ask a few questions, I think this would be a good time because with these incredible people — this is the media. You’ve heard me talking about it on occasion. Seldom, right? But on occasion. And I think with you in the room, I have a feeling that they’ll ask me much nicer questions. They’ll tone them down, right? And thank you for the apology. I appreciate it. That was very nice. Yahoo. I appreciate it. That was very nice. Yeah, go ahead. Jim, go ahead. Well, it will go down to zero, ultimately. And you have to understand, when it comes to cases, we do much more testing than anybody else. So we could go to some of these other countries — you know, as an example, China — if you test, you’re going to show many more cases. So we’re testing. We’re doing more testing than any other country in the world, by far, which we — we just discussed over in the Oval Office. So we’re going to show more cases because we’re doing much, much more testing — double anybody else. Somebody said if you add everybody else combined, that would be a number. And it will be — at the appropriate time, it will be down to zero, like we said. Well, experts all — Yeah. Yeah. Right. Also, experts — many very good experts — very good people, too — said that this would never affect the United States. It wouldn’t affect Europe. It wouldn’t affect anything outside of China. So we were listening to experts and we always will listen to experts. But the experts got it wrong. A lot of people got it wrong. And a lot of people had no idea — — it would be this serious. I listen to experts. I’ll tell you what — I did something that the experts thought I shouldn’t have done: I closed down our country and our borders. I did a ban on China from coming in, other than U.S. citizens. And we did very strong checks on even our U.S. citizens. Ron DeSantis was telling me before that when they came in, people were put into quarantine, people were checked. And we’re doing that now. So, yeah, I think we did something well ahead of schedule and we did that at the end of January. People were talking about this “wouldn’t have an impact” — as you know — even into March. So, I think we’ve done a great job, in the sense that we were early. I think, by banning China — by banning China and banning people coming in who would have been very heavily infected, we probably saved hundreds of thousands of lives. So, on that, I’m very proud. Yeah, please. Right. Yeah. Well, I like the idea of payroll tax cuts. I’ve liked that from the beginning. That was the thing that I really would love to see happen. A lot of economists would agree with me. A lot of people agree with me. And I think, frankly, it’s simple. It’s not the big distribution, and it would really be an incentive for people to come back to work and for employers to hire. The double tax on the company and also on the person, that’s what I like. And something like that could happen. Also, I think you have to look, because a lot of people are talking to — I assume your next question would be about states. And, Steve and I talked about it, and I talked about it with Mitch and with Kevin and with everybody. And the problem with the states is we’re not looking to recover 25 years of bad management and to give them the money that they lost. That’s unfair to other states. Now, if it’s COVID-related, I guess we can talk about it, but we’d want certain things also, including sanctuary city adjustments because we have so many people in sanctuary cities, which I don’t even think are popular, even by radical-left folks. Because what’s happening is people are being protected that shouldn’t be protected and a lot of bad things are happening with sanctuary cities. But that’s just — standing up here answering this question, that’s one of the things I think about. If we’re going to do something for the states, I think they’d probably want a — something having to do with sanctuary cities, something having to do with other different points that we can discuss a little bit later on. Yeah. Jeff, go ahead, please. Well, we haven’t been talked about — it hasn’t been asked on another industries yet. But with the meatpacking and with the transportation, we have had some difficulty where they’re having a liability that’s really unfair to them. And we’re going to be doing that — I think, Mark — we’re going to be doing that fairly soon. It’s getting — it’s getting drawn up. I should be signing that over the next hour or so, taking the liability — which frees up the entire system. And I fully understand it — not their fault. Yeah, please, go ahead. No, over here first. Yeah, we’re looking at doing it on the international flights coming out of areas that are heavily infected. As you know, Brazil is getting to that category. I think they’re going to be okay. I hope they’re going to be okay. He’s a very good friend of mine — but — the President. But I think that we’re going to look at it from the standpoint — I was discussing that with the governor of Florida, with Ron, a little while ago. So we’re going to be looking at that, coming in from other countries, frankly. But South America seems to be one that’s talked about because they have so much business going into Florida. With all of that being said, Florida has done incredibly well, and they’re starting to open up and open up very rapidly. But we will be looking into that in the very near future. We’re looking at it very strongly. Either the airlines or government. One or the other. We’re working with the airlines; maybe it’s a combination of both. Kristen, go ahead. Well, it will increase it and it’ll increase it by much more than that in the very near future. We’re way ahead of everyone on testing. We haven’t been given the press — in terms of, I think, fairness of the press — but that’s okay. And that’s why I appreciated the — the statement before by Yahoo. We are way ahead on testing. We are the best in the world on testing. We’ve tested much more than anybody else, times two — or every country combined. We’ve tested more than every country combined. And they keep talking about South Korea, and I’m very friendly, as you know, with President Moon, who just had a great victory — a new victory — as we’re very happy about. But he will tell you how well the United States has done on testing. And he told me that very strongly. The quality of our tests is the best and the number is the best. Now, with all of that being said, we will be going to an even higher number, and it goes up exponentially. And I’ve told you that we inherited a very broken test — a broken system and a broken test, and within a short period of time, we were setting records. So we have set records. We’ve done more than the entire world combined. We’ve done more than any other country in the world. So I think we’ve done a really good job. Now, with that being said, not everybody feels as strongly about testing as others. We have some governors that are very strong on testing. We have other governors, frankly, that aren’t nearly as strong on testing. Their test is much more modest. And their real test is when people stop getting sick, and they’ll be able to do that too. And I understand both systems very well, but we’re going to maximum testing, even though some people won’t even want to use it. Oh, well, we’re going to be there very soon. If you look at the numbers, it could be that we’re getting very close. I mean, I don’t have the exact numbers. We would’ve had them if you asked me the same question a little while ago because people with the statistics were there. We’re going to be there very soon. We’re really — we’re really doing — I mean, I watched your report on NBC today and it was an incorrect report, because we’re really doing a great job on testing. Unfortunately, the — the administration, the people that work our government, hasn’t been given the kind of credit that it deserves. Last month, it was about ventilators. Now we have so many that we’re able to give them to Italy, France, Spain. Other countries have been asking us for ventilators. We’re making over 150,000. We’ve distributed thousands and thousands. New York is in great shape with what we’ve done, as you know. New Jersey is in great shape. We spoke — just recently, Ivanka just spoke with the governor, and they’re in very good shape with ventilators. I mean, everybody has — and most of them have far more than they’ll ever need. They’re starting to send them back. So nobody went without a ventilator, and yet, if you read the media from a month and a half ago, it was all about ventilators. And ventilators are tough. That’s — that was a tough thing. But we should be very proud of our country. We took assembly lines, and they converted from cars, and other things, into ventilators. And the job that we’ve seen has not been seen since World War Two. What they have done in terms of the manufacture of very high-grade ventilators is amazing. So now we don’t hear about that. And I noticed that the testing is starting to die down because we now have the best testing anywhere in the world, by far. And we have more, and that’s a good thing. That’s a very good thing. I’m happy about it. We had a call yesterday with governors. And I will say that — I’m sure many of you were on that call, even though you shouldn’t have been. They shouldn’t have been, Amy, but they were. I wonder how that happened. But you heard the — the governors were thrilled. Now, the following day — if you’ll get a Democrat on the call, they’ll say — you know, I saw some of them today. They were so thrilled, yesterday, on a call that they thought it was a closed call. And today, they were good, but they weren’t the same as they were yesterday because that’s the business. They want to try and win on November 3rd. But we’re doing a job the likes of which nobody has ever done. And I’m not talking about myself; I’m talking about people in the Army Corps of Engineers, where we built hospitals, where we built thousands and thousands of beds all over the country. New York — what we did was incredible: 2,900 beds in a matter of days. What they’ve done is so incredible. And FEMA, what they’ve done. And the doctors and the professionals and all of the people that you see me with all the time. You know, these are great people, and they’ve really done a great job. And now our country is opening up again, and I think it’s going to be very, very successful. I think that — I mean, Larry is here. We talked about it, and we talk about it all the time. I think that third quarter, it’s obviously a transition quarter, but I think it’s going to be okay. Maybe better than okay. Larry thinks better than okay. I think even more so than I do. And then I think fourth quarter will be great. And I think next year is going to be a tremendous year for this country. Jennifer? Okay. I think Mitch is looking at it, as I do to an extent, as the infrastructure — he likes infrastructure. We all do. We have to rebuild our country. Eight trillion dollars has been spent. I wasn’t in favor of it — I can tell you that. In the Middle East, $8 trillion. Think of it. And yet, you wanted to fix a pothole in a roadway or in a highway in this country, and you didn’t do it because they didn’t have the money because so much money was spent in the Middle East. Well, that says, you know, a whole different story now. And we’re going to do — we want to do infrastructure, but a lot of people — a lot of the Republicans would like to keep that as a separate bill. So we’ll see how that works out, Jennifer. We’ll — we’ll see. Yeah, please. Well, I think that, like other things, we’re going to — hopefully, we’re going to come up with a vaccine. You never know about a vaccine, but tremendous progress has been made. Johnson & Johnson and Oxford and lots of good things. You’ve been hearing the same things as I do. Tremendous progress has been made, we think, on a vaccine. You always have to say “think,” and then you have to test it, and that takes a period of time. But a lot of movement and a lot of progress has been made in a vaccine. But I think what happens is it’s going to go away. This is going to go away. And whether it comes back in a modified form in the fall, we’ll be able to handle it. We’ll be able to put out spurts, and we’re very prepared to handle it. We’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot about it. The invisible enemy, it’s a bad enemy. It’s a very tough enemy, but we’ve learned a lot. It’s in 184 countries, as you hear me say often. It’s hard to believe. It’s inconceivable. It should have been stopped at the source, which was China. Should’ve been stopped very much at the source, but it wasn’t. And now we have 184 countries going through hell. But I think that — I think that a lot of good things are going to happen, and I really believe that fourth quarter is going to be maybe tremendous. And the — next year, I think, has a chance to be really getting close to record setting. We hope so. We hope we can be back where we were. We had the strongest economy anywhere in the world, and I hope we’re going to be back there again. Go ahead, please. Well, I have — I have many people. I know many stories. I’ve spoken to three, maybe, I guess, four families unrelated to me. I did — I lost a very good friend. I also lost three other friends — two of whom I didn’t know as well, but they were friends and people I did business with, and probably almost everybody in the room did. And it’s a — it’s a bad death. It’s not a — it’s — it’s a bad thing. It grips onto some people. Now, we found out that young people do extraordinarily well. That’s why I think we can start thinking about schools, but of course, we’re ending the school season. So, you know, it wouldn’t be — probably, you’d be back — you wouldn’t be back for too long. I noticed where Purdue University, a great school and a great state, wants to open and have students come in. I think that’s correct. Some colleges — I think I saw Harvard wants to have students come back in the fall. I would hope that they’d have a — have students. I think that the whole concept of computer learning is wonderful, but it’s not tele — tele-learning. But it’s not the same thing as being in a classroom in a great college or a college of any kind — college, university. There’s nothing — you can’t replace that. So hopefully they’re going to be coming back. Young people do very well with this horrible scourge. They do very well. So I am going to see you tomorrow, and we’ll have other things to talk about. We have a lot of interesting things. I don’t think we should have a news conference today because this is a news conference. In addition, it’s a celebration of these incredible people that have done such a good job. And I think we found a couple of stars in this room today. I won’t tell you who, but there are a couple. This guy, right here, is the biggest star in the room. Right? We’ll all agree he’s the — I — I vote — I vote for you. Okay? Great job you’ve done. And I really appreciate it . I appreciate you being here. Couldn’t have done better. Be careful. That could happen. That could happen. Be careful. We’ll have to do that, Amy. I think we could — maybe we could do something like that. You’re very good. He’s stolen the show, right? Do we agree? Doc, I’ll tell you, I’m getting ready with the eyes. Come on with me if you want. Do a quick one. Want to save a lot of time. We need time. We’re opening up the country, Doc, so we need a little time. We can’t spend too much. I don’t want to spend two and a half hours at an eye doctor, right? Okay? So we’ll think about that. We want to do that. I want to thank everybody, and in particular, Jovita. I want to thank you very much. And, Steve, you’re working — I can call Steve at any time. It’s — I can call him at two in the morning, six in the morning. It doesn’t make any difference. I say, “Did I wake you?” The answer is always, “No.” He’s doing a great job. We’re proud of him and everybody is. Everybody. Our government — we have to be proud of our government and we have to be proud of our country. These are really terrific people. We’re going through a period of time, the likes of which we’ve never seen in this country before. Certainly, even if you go back into 1917, that was the worst of all time, but it was also not as bad here. It was very bad. It was very rough. It was a bad one, but it wasn’t — it wasn’t — wasn’t quite like what we’re going through right now. And it’s because of the amazing — when you look at how contagious this is, where people literally just being in the same area with other people, it’s — it catches. So I’m very proud of this country, I have to say. I’m very proud to be your President, and I’m very proud of this country. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. We’re with the Governor of Florida, Ron DeSantis, who’s done a spectacular job in Florida. He enjoys very high popularity, and that’s for a reason. The reason is he’s doing a good job. And he came up. We talked about many things, including he’s going to be opening up large portions and, ultimately, pretty quickly, because he’s got great numbers — all of Florida. And I thought Ron would maybe — we’re together, we’re in the White House. This was a — sort of, a little bit of an unplanned meeting, and then we said, “Well, let’s bring in the press. Let’s talk to them if you’d like.” And we had some boards made up. And Ron has a few things to say. So, Ron DeSantis, please. Right. Give me that, Ron. Let me have that. I’ll hold it. I’ll be an easel. So you actually have more testing than you have demand. It’s a fantastic thing. Any questions for Ron? Ron saw the — hey, Jon, Ron saw the empty roads. And he was telling me before — it was fascinating. He saw the empty roads all over Florida from doing this, where they’re staying at home. And he said, “This is a great time to build roads. This is a great time to fix bridges.” They were fixing bridges down there where normally there’d be a traffic nightmare. And they’re fixing bridges and there’s hardly any traffic. Very smart. It’s true in other places. It’s definitely true with Ron. It seems to be true where the governors have done the proper job using us and utilizing the services that we provide. But it is also true in certain other locations. Pharmacies. I don’t think that’s true. I don’t — I don’t think it’s true. I don’t think it’s true. Who are you with? Do you want to respond to that? Do you — if you have the numbers. And that’s true also throughout the country. And that’ll be cutting off Brazil? I mean, are you going to Brazil? Would you ever want to ban certain countries? Yeah. You’ll let us know. You’ll be watching and you’ll let us know. Well, we’re going to be in touch on that. Go ahead, please. So we’re looking at that, and we’re probably going to be doing that. Brazil has pretty much of an outbreak, as you know. They also went a different way than other countries in South America. If you look at the chart, you’ll see what happened, unfortunately, to Brazil. So we’re looking at it very closely, and we’re in coordination with other governors also, but in particular with Ron. We’ll make that decision pretty soon. Well, we’re looking at that. That’s a very big thing to do. You know, again, I did it — — with China. I did it with Europe. That’s a very big thing to do. It’s certainly a very big thing to do to Florida, because you have so much business from South America. So we’ll be — we’ll be looking at that. Right. Are you going to apologize, Yahoo? That’s why you’re Yahoo and nobody knows who the hell you are. Go ahead. Let’s go, Jeff. Go ahead. That’s why nobody knows who you are, including me. Go ahead. You ought to get your facts right before you make a statement like that. Okay, well, your facts are wrong. Let’s go. No, we’re looking — we’re talking to the governor, we’re talking with others also that have a lot of business coming in from South America, Latin America. And we’ll make a determination. We’re also setting up a system where we do some testing, and we’re working with the airlines on that. Testing on the plane. Getting on the planes. It’ll be both. And, you know, Ron — Ron said one thing that was very interesting: You talk about ventilators. And ventilators were going to be a disaster in Florida. A disaster. “There’s not enough.” And we sent them thousands of ventilators. But in the meantime, you have thousands of ventilators that aren’t used, and we’ll be able to send them probably to other countries. You’ll build up your stockpile, but we’ll be able — because other countries: Italy, France, numerous — Spain is very much — we’re sending to Sprain. I spoke today to Nigeria. They want — they’ll do anything for ventilators. We’re going to send at least 200 ventilators to Nigeria; probably more than that. So — but ventilators was going to be a big problem, and now we have really — I mean, through an incredible amount of work by the federal government, we have a big, big beautiful overcapacity. And it’s the same thing with testing. The only problem is the press doesn’t give credit for that because, you know, no matter what test you do, they’ll say, “Oh, you should have done this. You should have tested 325 million people 37 times.” No, the testing is going very well. But this is a good example of a partnership between the federal government and a state government. Ron has been great. And some of your friends, some of the other governors, have done a good job. And some haven’t done a very good job, I’ll be honest with you. Some have not. They were on call. A lot of people expected it. When we read reports from the papers, I’d call Ron and say, “Ron, I think we’re going to need maybe thousands,” based on what some phony news organization was saying. And more and more — you know, number one, it was well handled. But we were ready to move, and we still are. We have more than 10,000. Jared, what do we have? Ten thousand? More than 10,000 in the stockpile. And what we’ll be able to do is help other countries, which is a good thing. Not only allies; countries that need help. We’re talking about a lot of countries that need help. Jennifer? Yeah. Yeah, we’re working with Tyson. We are. We’re going to sign an executive order today, I believe, and that’ll solve any liability problems where they had certain liability problems, and we’ll be in very good shape. We’re working with Tyson, which is one of the big companies in that world. And we always work with the farmers. There’s plenty of supply. There’s plenty of — as you know, there’s plenty of supply. It’s distribution, and we will probably have that today solved. It was a very unique circumstance because of liability. Yeah, Jon. Well, no. I think — Yeah, yeah. Well, I think probably a lot more to the Democrats, because a month later, Nancy Pelosi was saying, “Let’s dance in the streets of Chinatown.” You go back and you take a look at — even professionals, like Anthony, were saying this is no problem. This is late in February: “This is no problem. This is going to blow — this is going to blow over.” And they’re professionals, and they’re good professionals. Most people thought this was going to blow over. And if you can go — we did, I think, on January — toward the end of January, we did a ban with China. That was a very — I think you just said, a little while ago, that was a very important step. And then ultimately, we did a ban on Europe. That was very early in the process. Because if you take the ban and you look at it, I was badly criticized by Sleepy Joe Biden, by others. I was criticized horribly for — I mean, he called — he said all sorts of things. We won’t even say it. And then he apologized because — two weeks ago, he put out a statement that I was right. We did a ban — Jon, as you know, we did a ban. And many people — Democrats, professionals, probably Republicans — said that this would never happen, there’d be nothing; no big problem. You saw that, I think, better than anybody, Deborah. This was after the ban. So, obviously, I took it very serious. I’m not going be banning China from coming in if I didn’t take it seriously. And I did that early. Well, I’d have to check. I would have to check. I want to look as to the exact dates of warnings. But I can tell you this: When I did the ban on China, almost everybody was against me, including Republicans. They thought it was far too harsh, that it wasn’t necessary. Professionals, Republicans, and Democrats — almost everybody disagreed. And that was done very early. And that was a big state- — because I think we saved — whether it was luck, talent, or something else, we saved many thousands of lives. And Anthony said that, and you were saying that, and a lot of people said it. It was a very — I think you’d have a much different situation right now if we didn’t do the ban. We also did a ban, as you know, earlier. We did a ban on Europe sometime after, but still relatively early. Right. And the people we let back, Jon, as you know, they were American citizens. What are you going to do? “You can’t come back into your country”? You know, we had — it wasn’t like we were thrilled either. I said, “Well, we have these people coming back, all American citizens,” meaning just about all American citizens. There’s not much you can do about that. Now, we did do testing and individual — Well, in hindsight, the states did testing. I know Ron was doing a lot of testing, and the individuals states were doing in cooperation with the federal government. But originally, it was, “Oh, 40,000 people came in.” What they don’t say — what the news doesn’t say is they happen to be American citizens. How do you keep American citizens — you say they’re coming in from China, they want to come back to their country. There is a tremendous problem in China; they want to come back. Are we supposed to say to an American citizen, “You can’t come back into your country”? And we did do testing, and individual states did testing or were supposed to have. Yeah, anybody else? Yes. Yeah. We’re handling it. Probably today we’ll have that — that — it’s a roadblock. It’s sort of a legal roadblock more than anything else. We’ll have that done today. You can speak to the chief in a little if you’d like. Okay? They’ll give you a specific. I don’t know if you’d like that because there won’t be any cameras running, but if you’d like to get a real answer, you can speak to the chief. Who did? Who did? Yeah. It sounds like a good idea. To me, it sounds like a very good idea. I think the fourth quarter is going to be really strong, and I think next year is going to be a tremendous year. That’s what’s building. That’s my opinion. Third quarter is a transition quarter. Second quarter is what it is, but the — I mean, we’re — we’re in this period where let’s see what the numbers are. Third quarter is transition. I think fourth quarter is going to be incredibly strong. I think next year is going to be an unbelievably strong year. Kevin and Larry, would you like to say something about that? And, Larry, I wanted a payroll tax cut. I thought that would’ve been the best thing, but the Democrats did not want to give it to us, so we went a different way, which is fine. But I wanted a payroll tax cut, so we’ll — Yeah, no, I think they should’ve done a payroll tax cut. The Democrats did not want a payroll tax cut and I think that’s a mistake. I think there’s a big difference with a state that lost money because of COVID and a state that’s been run very badly for 25 years. There’s a big difference, in my opinion. And, you know, we’d have to talk about things like payroll tax cuts. We’d have to talk about things like sanctuary cities, as an example. I think sanctuary cities are something — it has to be brought up, where people that are criminals are protected — they’re protected from prosecution. I think that has to be done. I think it’s one of the problems that the states have. I don’t even think they know they have a problem, but they have a big problem with it — the sanctuary city situation. We’d have to talk about a lot of different things. But we’re certainly open to talking, but it would really have to be COVID-related, not related for mismanagement over a long time — over a long period of time. Well, it’s a very — — very simple distinction to make. Yeah. We’re not looking to do a bailout for a state that’s been — it’s unfair to — it’s unfair to many of the states, most of the states that have done such a good job. Okay? Anything else? Thank you very much. Go ahead, Jeff. Say it? Yeah. I just don’t want to comment on it, okay? I don’t want to comment on it. I just wish him well. I don’t want to comment on it. The Democrats, they don’t want to come back. They don’t want to come back. I think they should be back here, but they don’t. They’re enjoying their vacation and they shouldn’t be. This is a time — Yeah, I think they are. I think they are. If you look at Nancy Pelosi eating ice cream on late-night television — yeah, I think they probably are. They’re having a good time. I think they should be back. I think they should all come back and we should work on this together. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Today I’d like to provide you with an update in our war against the coronavirus. Thanks to our comprehensive strategy and extraordinary devotion to our citizens — we’ve had such tremendous support all over — we continue to see encouraging signs of progress. Cases in New York area, New Orleans, Detroit, Boston, and Houston are declining. Denver, Seattle, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, Nashville, Indianapolis, and St. Louis are all stable and declining. All parts of the country are either in good shape, getting better. In all cases, getting better. And we’re seeing very little that we’re going to look at as a superseding hotspot. Things are moving along. Really, a horrible situation that we’ve been confronted with, but they’re moving along. As we express our gratitude for these hard-fought gains, however, we continue to mourn with thousands of families across the country whose loved ones have been stolen from us by the invisible enemy. We grieve by their side as one family — this great American family. And we do grieve. We also stand in solidarity with the thousands of Americans who are ill and waging a brave fight against the virus. We’re doing everything in our power to heal the sick and to gradually re-open our nation, and to safely get our people back to work. They want to get back to work, and they want to get back to work soon. There’s a hunger for getting our country back, and it’s happening, and it’s happening faster than people would think. Ensuring the health of our economy is vital to ensuring the health of our nation. These goals work in tandem. They work side by side. It’s clear that our aggressive strategy to slow the spread has been working and is saving countless lives. For those who are infected, we have taken unprecedented action to ensure they have the highest level of care anywhere in the world. The federal government has built more than 11,000 extra beds, shipped or delivered hundreds of millions of pieces of personal protective equipment, as you know — in fact, some of the people here are going to be talking about it; some of our greatest executives — some of the greatest anywhere in the world — and distributed over 10,000 ventilators. And we now have, in a very short period of time — many have been delivered, and hundreds of thousands are being built. And frankly, every governor has more ventilators right now than they know what to do with. They’re actually shipping them to different locations, and we’re shipping some to our allies and others throughout the world, because we have ventilators like — the job that they’ve done in getting this very complex piece of equipment built is actually incredible. You don’t hear about ventilators anymore except in a positive way. We’ve launched the most ambitious testing effort, likewise, on Earth. The United States has now conducted more than 5.4 million tests — nearly double the number tested in any other country. More than twice as much as any other country. Think of that. Moments ago, I came from a meeting with some of our nation’s largest retailers, including Walmart, Walgreens, CVS, Rite Aid, and Kroger. We’re joined by leaders of those great companies. And we also have with us the leaders from the world’s top medical diagnostics companies and suppliers: Thermo Fisher, LabCorp, Quest, U.S. Cotton, and the American Clinical Laboratory Association. These are great — great companies. These private-sector leaders, along with others such as Roche, Abbott, Becton Dickinson, Hologic, and Cephe– Cepheid, have been exceptional partners in an unprecedented drive to expand the states’ capabilities and our country’s capabilities. The job they’ve done has been incredible. The testing that’s been developed and being developed right now has been truly an amazing thing. I want to thank Abbott Laboratories for the job they’ve done. I want to thank Roche. And in particular, those two have really stepped forward. Abbott with a five-minute test that people can take, and in five minutes they know what the — what the answer is. I’d like to ask, if I could, the executives of these great companies — and they are — they have really helped us a lot over the last 45-day period. We’re talking about a 45-day period when many of us met. And since then, what Walmart and the others have done has been nothing short of amazing. So I just want to ask them to come forward and say a few words about their company. Plus, they’re going to make a big contribution to our country. Please. Come forward, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please, go ahead. Please. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Doug. Great job. Thank you. Thank you very much. So thank you all very much. It’s incredible what we’ve done together over a short period of time. I want to thank our Vice President for the task force and the work. Every day, it gets better. And we had a fantastic goal with the governors today, and I would say that they are as — as thrilled as they can be, considering that the fact is that there has been so much unnecessary death in this country. It could have been stopped and it could have been stopped short, but somebody a long time ago, it seems, decided not to do it that way. And the whole world is suffering because of it — 184 countries at least. But I want to thank all of these great businessmen and women for the job they’ve done. They have been fantastic with us, working with us. And, as you know, for several weeks, my administration has encouraged the governors to leverage unused testing capacity in states. Very few understood that we have tremendous capacity. Then, one week ago, we provided each governor with a list of names, addresses, and phone numbers of the labs where they could find additional testing capacity in their states. Within 48 hours, the number of tests performed across the country began to absolutely skyrocket. On Saturday alone, more than 200,000 test results were reported, which is a gigantic number — bigger than any country anywhere in the world for a much longer period of time; a number that is an increase earlier in the month when we tested roughly less than 100,000 a day. So we much more than doubled it, and that will be doubling again very shortly. We are continuing to rapidly expand our capacity and confident that we have enough testing to begin reopening. And the reopening process — we want to get our country open. And the testing is not going to be a problem at all. In fact, it’s going to be one of the great assets that we have. Today we’re releasing additional guidance on testing to inform the states as they develop their plans for a phased and very safe reopening. Our blueprint describes how states should unlock their full capacity, expand the number of testing platforms, establish monitoring systems to detect local outbreaks, and conduct contact tracing. We have it all. Other countries are calling to find out what are we doing and how do you do it. And we’re helping them. We’re dealing with a lot of countries, helping them on testing, just like we did on the ventilators. I directed our Medicare program to make it easier for seniors to get the testing that they need. And the pharmacies — as you know, we are allowing pharmacies now to do testing. And we have other testing locations that we’re going to be allowing also, but having pharmacies get involved in testing is a very big deal. We’re also asking governors to do the same in their Medicaid program. So they’re going to be able and authorized to do the same in Medicaid. So it’s a big — that’s a big deal. So we’re deploying the full power and strength of the federal government to help states, cities — to help local government get this horrible plague over with and over with fast. There’s tremendous energy in our country right now. There’s energy like people haven’t seen in a long time — a spirit that they have not seen. And we’re doing very well — very well — considering what happened to us and considering if you look at what happened to others. This is something that the world has not seen for a long, long time. You can probably go back to 1917, where it was a terrible period of time. You all know what happened in 1917. That’s over 100 years ago. With that, I’d like to introduce, if I might — Dr. Birx, if you could come up. And then, Admiral, you’ll come up. And between the two of you, you’ll explain the entire process and how much progress we’ve made and where we’re going. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good job. Admiral, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great job. Thanks, Brett. Okay. So with that, we’re here to answer some questions, and Mike is up here also. So, we’ll answer. Steve, please go ahead. Well, we want them to do it. We recommend that they do it as quickly as possible, but safely. We want everyone to be safe. And I think you’re seeing that. You’re seeing a lot of governors get out and they want to open it up. Many are thinking about their school system. Not a long way to go in the school system right now for this season, for this year, but I think you’ll see a lot of schools open up even if it’s for a very short period of time. I think it would be a good thing. Because, as you see, in terms of what this vicious virus goes after, young people seem to do very well. Young people seem to do very well. So I know that there are some governors that aren’t necessarily ready to open up their states, but they may be ready to open up their school systems. We’ll see. But that’s their choice. But the word is “safety.” Okay? Rapid, but safety. Yeah, please. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Well, I think it’s a very unfair question because you have many great professionals, some of them you have great respect for, and you have many people in the other party — you mention Alex Azar, but you have many people in the other party that have said the same thing and with even more confidence. So a lot of people didn’t get that right. I was — I was very fortunate, whether it was through luck or whatever, that we closed the border. We put a ban on China — other than our citizens coming in. We had our citizens — you can’t keep out American citizens. You know, “Gee, you can’t come back into your country.” That’s a little tough to do. But we put a ban on China that was very fortunate. But I could tell you that Nancy Pelosi was dancing in the streets in Chinatown. She wanted to go, “Let’s go out and party.” That was late into February. So you don’t mention that, but you could mention that. Go ahead. Any other? Please, go ahead. Yeah, please. Stand up. You — you should have no complaints. Please. Well, I can only say what we’re doing. We’re reporting very accurately. If you look at other countries, other countries are not. I mean, you can look at China. You can look at numerous countries where I don’t think those are right numbers. I can only say what we’re doing. It’s very important to us to do very accurate reporting, and that’s what we’re doing. Jon, go ahead. Please. Thank you. Please. Yeah. Well, I just came out and I hadn’t heard. I heard there was a glitch. We’ll find out whether or not that’s so. Certainly it did work out very well for the original amount of money. This is the second amount. And I’ll find out about that. We’ll find — we’re relying on the banks to go out and do an accurate job. Yeah, please. In the back. Well, I wouldn’t mind doing that. I don’t know what the legal status of something like that — I would like to do that, as far as I’m concerned. I’m not involved in that process, but I would certainly like to have it listed. I’d have to find out if there’s a legal problem. But if there isn’t, I would do it gladly. Please. Well, Charlie, there are a lot of ways you can hold them accountable. We’re doing very serious investigations, as you probably know. And we are not happy with China. We are not happy with that whole situation because we believe it could have been stopped at the source, it could have been stopped quickly, and it wouldn’t have spread all over the world. And we think that should have happened. So we’ll let you know at the appropriate time, but we are doing serious investigations. Well, we’ve already discussed that, and especially having to do with medical supplies and others — and others. If you look prior to this virus, the deficit was coming way down under my administration because I put massive tariffs on China. We took in tens of billions of dollars. Gave some of it to the farmers who were unfairly targeted by China. Nobody has ever done that before. We never took in 10 cents from China. Now, all of a sudden, I think you know very well, we’ve taken in tens of billions of dollars. I helped the farmers by giving them, two years ago, $12 billion — all coming from China — and we had plenty leftover too. And then the following year, $16 billion. And this year, we’re also going to help our farmers. But nobody has ever done a thing like that. Because they were targeted unfairly by China. So we’re doing a very strong investigation, and we’ll let you know what the result of that is. We should be able to get the answers too. Go ahead. Please. Yeah, we’re looking very much and reliant very much on the local areas, the governors. And that’s been the way it has been for me, maybe not for everybody. But for me, that’s the way it’s been at the beginning and from the beginning. The governors — some of them — are doing an extraordinary job. Not all of them, but some of them. And I think all of them maybe hasn’t have a chance to do that. Some will be a little bit different. The areas are much different. Manhattan is much different than Montana. You have a lot of different circumstances, but — and obviously, if you look at the virus, it hits some areas. Hasn’t hit very much other areas, not even at all. Almost not at all. But the entire country has been infected. West Virginia — as an example, I spoke to Jim Justice, the governor of West Virginia, and they were along before anything hit and they had numerous deaths, even in West Virginia. And they were really the last one to be hit. So we’re dealing with the governors. We had a really great call today, as I told you. Very, very solid. These are — these were not complaining people. These were people that were — they had everything they needed. They had their ventilators. They have their testing. They see their testing is growing. They’re growing their testing. We’re helping them. We’re getting them what they need. And that was a group — I wish — I mean, I’m sure some of you were on the line, even though supposed to be. And I think you know what the result you weren’t of that call was. Please, go ahead. Well, we can do something much easier than that. We have ways of doing things a lot easier than that. But Germany is looking at things and we’re looking at things. And we’re talking about a lot more money than Germany is talking about. Yeah, please go ahead. We haven’t determined the final amount yet. It’s very substantial. If you take a look at the world — I mean, this is worldwide damage. This is damage to the U.S., but this is damage to the world. Yeah, please. Well, you’d have to ask Attorney General Barr, but I think he wants to see — like everybody, he wants to see people get back and wants to see people get back to work. He doesn’t want people to be held up when there’s no reason for doing it. In some cases, perhaps it’s too strict. He wants to make sure people have their rights and they maintain their rights, very importantly. So a lot of people would agree with him. But you’d actually have to ask that question specifically, from a legal standpoint, to Attorney General Barr. It would depend on the state. It would depend on the circumstances of the state. I mean, some states are, you know, perhaps a little early, and some states are a little bit late. And the Attorney General — I read that and I saw that — and, frankly, the Attorney General doesn’t want to have rights taken away. Because, you know, there are some people, they’re not allowed to open up a store or — you know, they’re going to lose their livelihood. And, by the way, that causes death also, between all of the things that happen. And this has been a big study. You know, the fact that people aren’t allowed to have their freedom causes a tremendous amount of problems, including death. So that’s what he’s talking about. Please, in the back. I can’t imagine why. I can’t imagine why. Yeah. No, I don’t. No, I can’t imagine — I can’t imagine that. Yeah, go ahead, please. Well, that — it doesn’t really matter what they say there — and we just left him; we just had a meeting –but — because we’re going to have much more than double it very soon. Now, there are big believers in testing, and then there are some governors that don’t feel as strongly about it at all. You understand that. They feel much differently about it. But we’re going with maximum testing, because it’s something we’re very capable of doing. But we’ll be much more than doubled. You know, Mike, I’d like you to answer that. We’re going to be much higher than doubled on testing very shortly. Mike, please. Go ahead, Jon. I think it’s very important to know — and this you can get from any other country, I think, if they’re being honest — not only do we have the most testing in the world by far, but we have, by far, the best testing. OAN, please. Go ahead. I will only say this: I think that General Flynn is a wonderful man. He had a wonderful career. And it was a disgrace what happened to General Flynn. Let’s see what happens now. But what happened to General Flynn should never happen again in our country. What happened to other people should never happen again in our country. What happened to your President of the United States should never again be allowed to happen. Go ahead, please. I don’t know. But I can tell you the third and the fourth quarter, in particular, are going to be, I think, spectacular. We were talking about it with the executives. I think we’re going to have a phenomenal third quarter. Nobody, you know, except one country, can be held accountable for what happened. Nobody is blaming anybody here. We’re looking at a group of people that should have stopped it at the source. But — so what happens in second, happens in second. What we are doing is — I think we’re going to have — you’re going to see a big rise in the third, but you’re going to see an — an incredible fourth quarter, and you’re going to have an incredible next year. I think you’re going to have a recovery. Look, I built — they were just telling me inside, and it’s fact — I built the greatest economy — with the help of 325 million people, I built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And one day, because of something that should have never been allowed to happen, we had to close our country, we had to close our economy. I built it. We had the best employment numbers and the best unemployment numbers for Hispanic American, for African American, for Asian American, for everybody — best stock market numbers. And, by the way, the stock market was up very substantially today and people are seeing a lot of good things. A lot of very smart people investing in the stock market right now. It’s at 24,000 — approximately 24,000. And if you would’ve said, with a tragedy that this country had to endure and go through, with all of the death and the people that died and were so badly hurt by what happened, and you can only say God bless them — but if you would’ve said that our country would be in the position we’re in now — we’re ready to move forward. We’ll never forget loved ones. We’ll never forget these great people that sacrifice for a reason of incompetence or something else other than incompetence. What happened at a point where they could have protected the whole world — not just us, the whole world. But we had the greatest economy ever in the history of our world, and I had to turn it off in order to get to a point where we are today. And now we’re making a comeback. And I think we’re going to have, economically — from an economic standpoint, next year — an unbelievable year. And I think that you’re going to see a fantastic fourth quarter, and the third quarter will start to build. But the second quarter, obviously, you’re going to have GDP lack of growth. I’m looking at the head of Walmart. What a job Walmart has done in going through something. I mean, they were — they were doing yeoman’s work, including getting us millions of — of, really, very, very protective outfits. And — and — I mean, the job that Doug and Walmart did was incredible. Millions of outfits. And those are high quality. I’ve seen them. Those a high quality. That’s what we need. So people have stepped up to the plate. I think we’re going to have a really good — I think it’s good to start building. I think it’s going to build fast. I think it’ll be a tremendous, tremendous comeback. And, you know, so I say I built the greatest economy — with all of the people that helped me and all of the people in this country, we built the greatest economy the world has ever seen. And we’re going to do it again. And it’s not going to be that long. Okay? Yes, please. Go ahead. Well, we’re looking at that, and it depends on how long it’s taken Europe to heal. Italy is starting to make a comeback. I’m very happy to see that, with my friend, the Prime Minister. He’s — it’s tragic what went on in Italy and Spain and France and Germany, frankly, and every — every country over there. It’s tragic. But we’ll be looking at what’s happening in Europe. And certainly, we want to do that and they want to do it too. They want to do it very badly. Yeah. Say it? On Kim Jong Un? I can’t tell you exactly. Yes, I do have a very good idea, but I can’t talk about it now. I just wish him well. I’ve had a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un. If I weren’t President, you’d be in war. You would’ve been in war with Korea. You would have been in war with North Korea if I wasn’t President — that, I can tell you. He expected that — that, I can tell you. I — I hope he’s fine. I do know how he’s doing, relatively speaking. We will see. You’ll probably be hearing in the not-too-distant future. All right. One or two more. Go ahead, please. Yeah. I never even thought of changing the date of the election. Why would I do that? November 3rd. It’s a good number. No, I look forward to that election. And that was just made-up propaganda — not by him, but by some of the many people that are working, writing little statements. I see all the time: “Statement made…” You say, “So, statement made per Joe Biden.” Sleepy Joe. He didn’t make those statements, but somebody did. But they said he made it. No, let him know I — I’m not thinking about it at all. Not at all. Go ahead. In the back, please. Please. Oh, I don’t know. I haven’t seen the report. I haven’t seen the report. Yeah, please. Go ahead. He didn’t say anything last Saturday. Nobody — nobody knows where he is, so he obviously couldn’t have said it. If you have a — this is breaking news. That Kim Jong Un made a statement on Saturday, I don’t think so. Okay, go ahead. Let’s do — let’s do one more. Please, in the back. So, yeah, we’ve lost a lot of people. But if you look at what original projections were — 2.2 million — we’re probably heading to 60,000, 70,000. It’s far too many. One person is too many for this. And I think we’ve made a lot of really good decisions. The big decision was closing the border or doing the ban — people coming in from China — obviously, other than American citizens, which had to come in. Can’t say, “You can’t come in. You can’t come back to your country.” I think we’ve made a lot of good decisions. I think that Mike Pence and the task force have done a fantastic job. I think that everybody working on the ventilators — you see what we’ve done there — have done unbelievable. The press doesn’t talk about ventilators anymore. They just don’t want to talk about them and that’s okay. But the reason they don’t want to talk — that was a subject that nobody would get off of. They don’t want to talk about them. We’re in the same position on testing. We are lapping the world on testing. And the world is coming to us. As I said, they’re coming to us, saying, “What are you doing? How do you do it?” And we’re helping them. So, no, I think we’ve done a great job. And one person — I will say this: One person is too many. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you. We continue to see evidence that our aggressive strategy is working and working at a very high level. Nationwide, the percent of tests that come back positive has declined very significantly. Last week, roughly 38 percent of the tests in New York were positive. This week, that number is down to 28 percent. New cases in New York are down 50 percent compared to a week ago. And fatalities are down 40 percent over the same period. In Louisiana, the rate of positive test result had declined from 25 percent down to 15 percent in the last seven days alone. Eighteen states now show a decline in a number of positive tests in the last seven days. So, over the last seven days, there’s been very, very significant progress. Half of all Americans live in states that have now taken steps to open their economies. Just yesterday, Governors Gavin Newsom, California; Tim Walz of Minnesota; and Bill Lee of Tennessee announced additional plans to restart certain sectors. We ask every American to maintain vigilance and hygiene, social distancing and voluntary use of face coverings. We’re opening our country. It’s very exciting to see. We have a lot of talent involved, from governors down to people that just stand there and help you with the doors. There’s been tremendous talent involved and tremendous spirit from our country. The country is a great place, and it’s going to be greater than ever before. I really believe that. I think there’s going to be a tremendous upward shift. I spoke with Tim Cook, today, of Apple. And they have a good sense of the market, and he feels it’s going to be a “V.” The “V” is sharply upward later on as we actually get it fully open. Today, I signed the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, providing $320 billion to keep American workers on the payroll. Thirty billion dollars of the Paycheck Protection funds will be reserved for small financial institutions, including those that serve minority and distressed communities, extending vital relief to thousands of African American and Hispanic American small-business owners and their employees. The bill also delivers $75 billion for hospitals — so badly needed for hospitals; they’ve taken a very big hit — and medical providers. In areas less affected by the virus, hospitals and doctors should work with their state and local health officials on ways to safely resume elective medical treatments and care. Under the CARES Act, we’re sending back payments to millions of American workers. More than 80 million Americans have already received their payment: $3,400 for a typical family of four. Three thousand four hundred dollars. That’s great. And you deserve it. The CARES Act requires that the federal government send out a notice of what benefits Americans are receiving. To fulfill the requirement, the Treasury Department is mailing a letter to me. It will include the amount, their economic impact payment, how it will arrived — direct deposit, check, or prepaid debit card — as well as a message to the nation, letting each American know that we are getting through this challenge together as one American family. And that’s what’s been happening. The whole world is watching us. You have 184 countries out there that have been hit, and now it’s probably higher than that. But they’re all watching us. They’re all watching and they’re calling, and they respect what we’re doing, so much. I spoke with the leaders of numerous countries today. They’re asking if we can send them ventilators, and I’m agreeing to do it. We have tremendous capacity — now, over-capacity of ventilators. We’re filling up stockpiles for our states and for ourselves. The federal government has over 10,000 ventilators, and we could have a lot more if we wanted to do that. But we’re helping Mexico, Honduras, Indonesia, France. We’re sending to France. We’re sending to Spain. We’re sending to Italy. And we’ll probably be sending to Germany, should they need them. Over the last three years, we built the strongest economy and the most successful country the world has ever seen. Greatest economy the world has ever seen. Nobody has ever done anything like what we were able to do. And we will rebuild that economy. Our economy in the not-too-distant future, I really believe, with all that we’ve learned and all that we’ve done, will be just as strong and maybe stronger than ever before — even stronger than it was just two months ago. Some interesting note is that the FDA approved the first at-home COVID-19 test kit. It just got approved. And Dr. Stephen — where is Stephen? Stephen Hahn. Stephen? — is going to say a couple of words about that and some other things. I want to thank Stephen. The FDA has been incredible. They’ve been approving not only this, but they’ve been approving many things at a pace that’s never happened before. And they’re being very safe about it, as Stephen told me. He’s told me — told me very strongly. But at the same time, they’re approving things at record numbers, in a record — at a record rate. And it’s really been helpful. Many tests are going on — many vaccine tests and tests of every different kind. And things are happening. Just like this event, things are happening very rapidly. And I’d like to have Stephen tell you a little bit about it. Thank you very much. Stephen, please. Thank you very much. Go ahead, Doc. Would you like to maybe — Thank you. Thank you very much. Mike, please. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you very much. And I’m honored to be joined by representatives of many great American retail companies, some of the greatest companies anywhere in the world. And we’re talking today about different things, and — including distribution and medical diagnostics, et cetera. You’ll see in a second, they’re going to say hello. Forty-five days ago, many of you joined me in the Rose Garden to launch a new partnership with the private sector to dramatically increase and accelerate America’s capacity to test for the coronavirus. We’ve made such strides, like it wouldn’t even be — you wouldn’t even believe it. We just had a call with the governors, and I guess they were just about all on the call, and everybody was very happy. And the testing is going really well, and we’re beating — we’re doing more than anybody else. Probably some of you were on that call — even though you weren’t supposed to be, but I’m sure you were. And the testing itself is going very well. No complaints. Since then, what we’ve achieved is really nothing short of amazing. The United States now holds the world record for testing and by a lot. We’ve conducted more than 5.4 million tests — more than any other country anywhere in the world. And we’re actually growing it very rapidly. You probably heard those numbers just came out. After encouraging governors for several weeks to leverage unused testing capacity in their states, last week we provided contact information for specific labs where they could find additional testing and capacity. Within 48 hours, the number of tests performed across the country began to skyrocket. Early in April, the United States averaged approximately 150,000 tests per day. That’s up very, very substantially from a couple of weeks before. And the 150,000 a day has gone to way over 200,000 tests per day since Wednesday. This includes a 122 percent testing increase in Michigan, 124 percent increase in Maryland, and many other locations are right in that vicinity and some are a little bit higher than that. To provide further guidance and support to the states, today we are releasing our blueprint for state testing plans and rapid response programs. Together, we’re accelerating testing for Americans at retail locations across the country, and especially in our African American and Hispanic communities. We’re going very, very strong in those communities. There are currently 73 retail sites — testing sites in 25 states in those are- — in those specific areas, and we’re increasing it very substantially. A lot of — a lot of progress has been made for African American testing, Hispanic American testing, and Asian American testing. So I look forward to hearing from each of these incredible business people who have worked so strongly with us right from the beginning. I — think of it: It was only 45 days ago that we got together and so much progress has been made. And I thought maybe we’d go around the room and they’d say just a couple of words. And then we’re having a news conference in the Rose Garden, because we have a lot of these folks are going to be joining us and they’ll say something out there. They’ve got a big gift to our nation and to the people from some of the companies, and I appreciate it. Maybe we’ll start off with a very small company — a very small, little retailing company known as Walmart, headed by a great guy. Doug, please. Okay. And we know this gentleman, right? So tremendous progress is made and we’ll be talking to you in a little while out at the news conference. Mike, would you have anything to say? Thank you very much, Mike. We’ll see you outside at the news conference. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you very much. We’re gathered today for a very historic bill signing that will provide vital financial relief to American workers and families. We’re grateful to be joined by Vice President Mike Pence, and also with us are Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Administrator Jovita Carranza, Senators Roy Blunt, John Cornyn, Dan Sullivan, as well as Leader Kevin McCarthy and Representative Steve Scalise and Liz Cheney. We appreciate you all coming. A very big moment. I want to thank Congress for answering my call to pass this critical funding. And the bill includes, as you probably know — you’ve been watching it over the last week as it matured unto this this point — $320 billion to refill the Paycheck Protection Program, helping keep millions and millions of American workers on the payroll. Great for small businesses. Great for the workers. Thirty billion dollars to the Paycheck Protection funds will be reserved for small financial institutions, including those that serve minority and distressed communities, extending vital relief to thousands of African American and Hispanic American small-business owners and their employees. And that’s $30 billion of the Paycheck Protection funds. And that’s really having to do very much with extending vital relief to thousands of African American and Hispanic American people in this country that are so great but have been so badly hurt. They’re great people. They’ve been badly hurt. Ten billion dollars for Economic Injury Disaster Grant Program. Fifty billion dollars for the Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program, which will provide loans to small businesses and farms. Very important — farms. Seventy-five billion dollars to reimburse hospitals and healthcare providers. Eight hundred and twenty-five million dollars — that’s a small one; million. That’s the first time I’ve seen the word “million” instead of “billion. Eight hundred and twenty-five million dollars for community health centers and rural clinics, which serve many of our most vulnerable low-income communities. And $25 billion for expanding testing capabilities. So let me once again thank everyone who helped achieve these historic victories. This is a tremendous victory. This is on top of all of other things that we’ve been doing, including an incredible job, I must say — where Vice President Pence and with the task force — the coronavirus, that we are really hitting hard. The task force has been fantastic. The ideas and the implementation has been unprecedented. We don’t get the credit that we should, and I don’t want it for myself, but I actually do want it for the Vice President, and I do want it for the task force. But most importantly, I want it for all of the incredible people that are working so hard. You see what we’ve done on ventilators. We’re now — we’re the kings. I have many countries calling. We’re the king of ventilators. Countries are calling, and they’re calling all the time now — can we help them with ventilators. And we are helping some countries. We spoke to a number of them today: Indonesia, Honduras, El Salvador. We spoke to numerous countries today. You probably saw that. I spoke to the presidents, prime ministers. I’m speaking to everybody. They all want to know if we can help them with ventilators. And we’re capable of doing that because we’re making thousands and thousands of ventilators. And every governor has more than they need. In fact, some of the governors are now taking ventilators and shipping them to different states that don’t even need them. So it’s been an amazing story that hasn’t been written about. Actually, there have been stories about why haven’t they written about it. Those are the stories, because the news is — much of the news is not fair. But that’s been incredible. Likewise, our testing — Mike just said today “5 million.” Tell me, was it — 5.1 million tests. That’s more than all countries combined. All countries combined. 5.1 million tests. And you were asked a question about that the other day. “You didn’t hit 5 million tests.” Well, I guess Mike didn’t respond, or he wasn’t asked the answer. But, right now, it’s 5.1 — — and that was just the other day, Mike. Some reporter named — I think his name was Jonathan Karl, right? Who’s a very nice — actually, a very nice guy. And now we’re 5.1 Well, and actually, I wanted to tell you this: Honduras just called, and they are in a quagmire because they don’t have good testing, and they asked us to help them with their testing. We will. They’ve been helping us very much on the border. Our southern border is setting record lows for people coming through our southern border. We have that really in good shape. In addition, we’re now up to our 170th mile. We want to get up to 450 early in the year, early — by the end of this year. But basically, early next year, we’ll be up to 450. Maybe even soon than that. And ultimately, what we’ve done on the wall is incredible. The amount of — and I can say this to John from Texas — John Cornyn — the numbers are incredible, in terms of coming across. We’ve stopped it. And that 170-mile stretch where we have the wall, it’s like — it’s like a different world. People used to just drive right across and nobody could do anything about it. Now we have a tremendous, powerful wall there, and it’s been — it’s been incredible, because a country needs to have borders. And you don’t have borders if you have people pouring in by the tens of thousands. And we have totally stopped it. So it’s been — it’s been a great thing. So we’re going to sign this right now. Before I do, I think I’ll ask the Vice President if he’d like to say anything, and maybe some of the people in the room. They’ve all been very instrumental in this, and they’ve been great friends of our country. Mike, please. Right. It’s been really amazing, hasn’t it? So what was the vote in the Senate? What was it? There — there it was. And what about the Senate? And then they’ll criticize me, the Democrats, for doing the bill. I said, “But you voted for it.” Well, that doesn’t matter. Dan, do you have anything to say? Thank you, Dan, very much. Steve? Thank you, Steve. Kevin, please. Thank you very much, Kevin. It’s going to help a lot of people. That, I can say. Jovita, good job you’re doing. Go ahead. Want to say something? Go ahead. And I assume that SBA has never done numbers like this. This is record-breaking stuff . It’s been incredible. And, as you know, Harvard is giving back the money. Stanford is giving back the money. Everyone is giving it back. And in many cases, they never got — we’re talking about some of the bigger companies that we felt, after we looked at some numbers, that they shouldn’t have taken it. And Steve maybe will say something about that. But I’ll go back to John Cornyn first. Please, John. Yeah. That’s true. That’s true. Good job. Good job. Well, we have some — one of the — one of great ones. One of our really good friends. Lynne [Liz], go ahead. I understand. Steve? Great. Thank you. Thank you very much, Steve. Roy? Well, thank you, Roy. Great job, Roy. Appreciate it very much. So, I just spoke with Tim Cook of Apple, and he would like us to do things. He’s going to be spending tremendous amounts of money in our country. He’s going to be bringing back tens of billions of dollars into our country. He’s going to build. And he feels that we’re going to have a “V.” You know what the “V” is. We’re talking about the “U” or the “V,” or maybe a flat line. But he thinks it’s going to be a “V.” That’s his own impression. And he’s had some pretty good impressions. He gets it. I just want to thank everybody that’s here today. I want to thank, most importantly, all of the people that have suffered so greatly for a reason that should have never happened. This should have never happened to our country. This should have never happened to 184 other countries either. This was a disgrace that it was allowed to happen. So, with that, I’ll sign the bill. Okay. Thank you, very much. How about we’ll give one to Roy, for a change. We’ll give one to Roy. Don’t worry, you’re all going to get it. Okay? Thank you all very much. Hold it one second. Very importantly, we’re going to give these out. Okay? Liz, you’ll give them out, around. I think we’ve done a great job. As you know, minimal numbers were — minimal numbers were going to be 100,000 people. Minimal numbers were going to be 100,000 people. And we’re going to be, hopefully, far below that. If we didn’t take quick action, you could have lost many millions of people. So we’re really being given a lot of credit for a lot of people. I’m not looking for credit for myself, but I am looking for credit for people in the federal government that have done such a great job, and for the doctors and nurses and everybody else. Please. I don’t — I don’t the gentleman. I’m sorry. I don’t know him. I don’t know how you sign a whistleblower complaint when — is that a whistleblower complaint you’re talking about? How do you sign a whistleblower complaint everybody knows who he is? I know nothing about him. That, I don’t know. Again, I don’t know anything about it. I don’t know — I don’t know — Easy, easy. Just take it nice and easy. I don’t know anything about him. Until yesterday, I never heard of the gentleman. Okay? What? I have not yet. At some point, I will. I guess they moved him to a different group. Well, we’re looking into it. We’re studying it. We’re investigating it, and we’ll see what happens. But it is something that should’ve been stopped early on. It could’ve been stopped easily in China, and we don’t understand why they didn’t do it. So we’re looking into it. We’re not happy about it. Who are you with? Who are you with? Go ahead. Postal Service. The Postal Service is a joke because they’re handing out packages for Amazon and other Internet companies. And every time they bring a package, they lose money on it. So Amazon and other Internet companies and delivery companies are dropping all of their — not all of them, but a big portion of packages, and whatever else they’re doing, into a post office. And the post office is supposed to deliver the packages, and they lose a lot of money. The post office should raise the price of a package by approximately four times. Because they don’t raise them. For some reason — these people have been in there a long time. But for some reason, they’re very cozy with some of these companies, and they don’t raise the price of a package. And if they raise the price of a package, like they should, four or five times that’s what it should be — or let Amazon build their own post office, which would be an impossible thing to do because the post office is massive and serves every little piece of the country. The post office, if they raised the price of a package by approximately four times, it’d be a whole new ball game. But they don’t want to raise because they don’t want to insult Amazon and they don’t want to insult other companies, perhaps, that they like. The post office should raise the price of the packages to the companies, not to the people — to the companies. And if they did that, it would be a whole different story. Do you agree with that, Steve? Well, I’ll go a step further. If they don’t raise the price of the service they give — which is a tremendous service and they do a great job, and the postal workers are fantastic, but this thing is losing billions of dollars; it has for years. Because they don’t want to insult — for whatever reason, you could imagine — they don’t want to insult Amazon and these other groups. If they don’t raise the price, I’m not signing anything. So they’ll raise the price so that they become maybe even profitable, but so they lose much less money. Okay? And if they don’t do it, I’m not signing anything and I’m not authorizing you to do anything. No, I was asking a question sarcastically to reporters like you, just to see what would happen. Now, disinfectant, for doing this maybe on the hands, would work. And I was asking the question of the gentleman who was there yesterday — Bill — because when they say that something will last three or four hours or six hours, but if the sun is out or if they use disinfectant, it goes away in less than a minute. Did you hear about this yesterday? But I was asking a sarcastic — and a very sarcastic question to the reporters in the room about disinfectant on the inside. But it does kill it, and it would kill it on the hands, and that would make things much better. That was done in the form of a sarcastic question to the reporters. Okay. No. No, no, no, no. To look into whether or not sun and disinfectant on the hands — but whether or not sun can help us. Because, I mean, he came in yesterday and he said they’ve done a big study. This is a study. This isn’t where he hasn’t done it. This is where they’ve come in with a final report that sun has a massive impact, negatively, on this virus. In other words, it does not live well with humidity, and it doesn’t live well with sun, sunlight, heat. It doesn’t live well with heat and sun and disinfectant. And that’s what I brought out. And I thought it was clear. Okay? Anything else? Yeah, I want to help that industry. That industry got unnecessarily hurt by massive amounts of oil being — being produced by very big countries — oil-producing countries. And they got carried away. And I got involved with those two countries to have them make peace with each other. But by the time we get involved, all of a sudden, I mean, they have billions of barrels that — they never saw anything like it. Every tanker is loaded up with oil, sitting out on the ocean. Oil is less than water. Nobody has ever seen anything like it. Now, in many respects for our country, automobiles and airplanes and all of the things that you have to do with the airlines — we’re trying to make the airlines work again, and we will. We just provided financing for them, which was great. We’re going to keep our airlines and all those employees totally intact. So, in some ways, fuel cost is very low. But I’m an energy person. I love the energy business. We’re energy independent. We’re going to stay that way. We’re also filling up, as you know, John, our National Strategic Reserves. And we’re filling them up like never before. And we’re, frankly, getting very good prices — okay? — as we should. Very good prices. So we’re filling up the reserve; that’s 75 million barrels. And we’re going to have that filled up pretty soon. So it’ll be filled for the first time in a long time. And we’re doing it at a very, very low cost. So, it’s good. Now, it’ll come back when the virus is gone. They lost 40 percent of their market because of the virus, in all fairness to even the producers and even the countries. They lost 40 percent of their market because people aren’t driving automobiles; they’re not doing anything. So, all of a sudden, they’re not flying on airplanes. The airline business was essentially shut down. So all of this massive amount of fuel — and this is all over the world; this isn’t here. This is in every — virtually, every country. I’d probably say — as you know, I’ve been talking about 184 countries. It’s probably more than that now. A hundred and eighty-four. A friend of mine said — a very sophisticated friend said, “I never knew you had 184 countries.” We actually have more than that. But 184 countries, that we know of, have been affected by this. So, the oil business lost 40 to 50 percent of their market. And that was — you know, who would’ve seen a thing like that coming? As soon as this comes back, and with the cutting, the energy business will come back and it’ll come back strong. So, we’re working. The energy business is very important to me, and we’re going to build it up. This really hurt the energy business as much as any other business, because it totally knocked out — the supply kept coming. And, by the way, there was a lot of oil where this hit. Before it hit, there was a lot of oil. Prices were pretty low, which is a very good thing. But then we got hit by this, and it was devastating to the energy business all over the world. So we will be able to — once this straightens out and once you get some demand, and then you’re going to reduce the supply a little bit, it’ll equalize and it’s going to be great again. We’ll — we will make the energy business great again. And we want to remain independent. We’re independent now. We’re totally independent on energy. We want to keep it that way. Go ahead. Well, one of the alternatives we can think about, Steve — and just in sitting here watching — we could buy — you know, the United States is the largest user of oil. We could buy oil at a great price into the future. That gives them the infusion they need, and we have oil at a great price into the future. So that’s something I’d like you to think about. Likewise — Yeah. Likewise, I told Steve we’re the biggest user of the airlines — the United States government. And one of the ways we can help the airlines is buy tickets at a very large discount, maybe 50 percent off or maybe more. And you buy into four or five years’ worth of tickets, and you infuse them with some cash. And in the meantime, we’re flying the people of our country for, you know, a fraction of the cost that it would be if the — you know, when the airlines get back. They will get back, but — so we’re thinking, in terms of — as additional, because the airlines are well set right now. But as an additional incentive, where we buy tickets in advance at a very big discount, which I’ve liked really from the beginning. And we’re not up there — look, the fact is that the airlines are going to be fine the way it is now, but I like that as an additional help for the airlines. I like it both ways. I like it for us to. We’re the larger user of the — largest user of the airlines. So you buy tickets. I don’t know. It sounds good — right? — if we get a good discount. Well, Wyoming is great. They’re great. And they’re lucky to have you. Yes, please. I don’t like that. That’s — Yeah. Right. I like the idea of looking into that. You’re right. You know, that got where they were pushed by the radical left, and so they’re afraid of the radical left. Shouldn’t be afraid of the radical left. Very nice people — AOC-plus-three and all of her friends. But you shouldn’t be afraid of them. You should reason with them. And if they don’t reason, you do what’s right. You cannot be discriminating against these great energy companies. And there is — I’ve heard that from them. That’s very hard. One of the banks, I think they said, “We want to be out of out of energy by 20- — 2050.” That’s a long time. But they want to be out of energy. What’s that all about – they want to be out of energy? So, you know, we’re blessed in this country because we’re sitting on top of tremendous wealth. Very few countries have that kind of wealth. We’re bigger than Saudi Arabia, we’re bigger than Russia, we’re bigger than any other country, in terms of our energy. And a lot of things like the Paris Accord — the Paris Accord basically took your wealth away. It didn’t give you the advantage. And I said, “I won’t sign it,” because it took the wealth of this country away because they didn’t want us to use our energy. They didn’t want us to use our — our great asset. We have tremendous wealth. You know, one of the interesting things: If you look at Iran and you look at Saudi Arabia, and you look at the big, vast waterways that we patrol — years and years and years, gratis, for nothing, so that other people got rich, so that we could get oil out of there. But so that other people got rich. We never got anything. Now we get things for it. But we don’t have ships very much in there anymore. And with all of the conflict and all of the things — they kept saying, “Where are the American ships?” We have so much energy now. We’re sitting on so much. And it’s happened, really, over the last three years, three and a half years. We’ve . One thing that happened great, John — I mean, if — if you look — John, you were even in favor of it because you’re an energy person — but we helped Alaska. But we really helped the United States with ANWR, for Dan. They did a fantastic job. Ronald Reagan tried to get it approved; couldn’t do it. Every President tried to get ANWR, and they couldn’t do it. I got it approved. People don’t even talk about it, and that’s okay. They don’t have to talk about it. That’s why I talk about it. Because nobody else will. But ANWR is perhaps the largest find in the world. Right? It could be. But it’s certainly one of them. But it’s been talked about for years, probably one of the — maybe the largest find anywhere in the world. And we got it approved a year ago. And you’re working on it, and it’s incredible. But Ronald Reagan could not do it. He said that was one of his big disappointments. He could not get ANWR approved. They couldn’t get it through. And we got it through. We got it passed. And that was a great achievement for everybody in this room, and it was a great achievement, actually, for the two of you, the — the big oil guys. Right? It was a big — and I have to say, these senators and the people in this room, they love energy. Not that they love it; they love the jobs it produces and they like what it represents. And it gives us total independence. So it’s very important. Okay. Any other question? I — I’d wish you’d — because you have the mask on. So it’s a — Yeah, that’s great. Just for a second. He’s not worried. See the man in front of you? Are you worried about her? Are you worried about her? He’s not worried. Look, he’s protected. Go ahead. Well, it could be that they further cut. I think it’s going to be natural though, really, isn’t it? It’s going to be natural at this point. So I think I got them to cut maybe — what would you say? I would say — well, they say 10. They say 10 million, but I think it’s 15 million barrels. I even heard 20 million. But, you know, it’s going to be natural. And in all fairness, Texas and Oklahoma, and if you go to North Dakota and all of our places, it’s going to be natural. Canada is cutting. They’ve got to cut. Right now, I mean, they’ve got to cut. And it’s — it’s — you know, supply and demand is a beautiful thing. But what happened is, one day, all of our demand just — not all — 50 percent of our demand disappeared with this virus. They say from 40 to 50 percent. So you’re producing, and it’s going good. Price is good. Price is good enough for the companies and really good for the countries — it was really good — and the consumer. And then one day — in one day, it stopped. So it’s, you know — well, I guess you could always say it’s somebody’s fault, but it happened. Something happened that nobody thought would ever happen. Okay. Go ahead. Well, I never spoke to a scientist. But I will tell you this: I did speak with the President of Honduras just a little while ago, and I didn’t bring it up; he brought it up. He said they use the hydroxychloroquine. And he said the results were so incredible with hydroxychloroquine. This happened an hour ago. I just spoke to him, President of Honduras, and he said — and I guess we made some available to them or whatever. He was thanking me. And I said, “How has the result been?” And he said it’s been incredible. Now, I don’t know — he’s not a doctor, I don’t think. But he’s — he thanked me, and he said the results have been very good. So you hear it both ways. I’ve seen all negative, other than the other day. I saw some study, which wasn’t good. But I saw very positive coming out of France and coming out of a lot. But here’s the President of Honduras saying how good it was. I mean, I didn’t even bring up the subject. He brought it up. So the study has to be there. Look, I’m not a doctor. The study has to be done. And maybe it’s helping. If it helps, it’s great. If it doesn’t help, don’t do it. It does work with, as you know, malaria, lupus, et cetera. And it’s a very powerful drug. And I would say this: If it works, I think everybody would be in favor of it. But check with him, call him, the President of Honduras — a really nice guy. I just left him — just on the phone. You know what they needed? Ventilators. He said, “Can you give?” I said, “We can help you,” because we’re making — we’re going to have a hundred and — we’re going to have 110,000 made in a very short period of time. And they’ve been making them by the thousands. Mike Pence went out to a factory in Wisconsin just the other day, three days ago. And he came back; he could not believe how incredible the factory was. They’re making thousands of ventilators every couple of months. Thousands. And company — and countries are calling us now: France, Italy. We’re sending to Italy, France, Spain. We are making thousands and thousands of very high-grade ventilators. There’s a big difference between high grade and not high grade when it comes to what those do. And we’re sending them to countries as they call, as they need them. We’re sending them all over the world. And when we asked the governors, “Do you need ventilators?” — the answer is “no.” In fact, New York was nice. They sent some to — I think they sent them to Massachusetts. Yeah, please. Jeff. Well, I wish they wouldn’t — I wish they wouldn’t — Well, I think I did. But I do think this — Yeah. I do think that disinfectant on the hands could have a very good effect. Now, Bill is going back to check that in the laboratory. You know, it’s an amazing laboratory, by the way. It’s amazing the work they do. So he’s going to check. Because a hard surface — this is a hard surface, I guess, maybe depending on whose hands you’re talking about, right? But this is a hard surface. And disinfectant — the disinfectant has an unbelievable — it wipes it out. You know, you saw it: Sun and heat and humidity wipe it out. And this is from tests. They’ve been doing these tests for, you know, a number of months. And the result — so then I said, “Well, how do we do it inside the body or even outside the body, with the hands?” And disinfectant, I think, would work. He thinks would work. But you use it when you’re — when you’re doing your hands. I guess that’s one of the reasons they say wash your hands. But whether it’s washing your hands or disinfectant on your hands, it’s very good. So they’re going to start looking at that. And there is a way of, you know, if light — if sun — sun itself — that sun has a tremendous impact on it. It kills it like in one minute. It goes from what was it? Hours to, like, one minute. It’s dead. So I said, “You got to go back and look.” But I’d like them now to look as it pertains to the human body, not just sitting on a railing or sitting on a wall. I’d like them to look as it pertains — because maybe there’s something there. They have to work with the doc — I’m not a doctor. They have to work with the doctors. But maybe there is something to light and the human body and helping people that are dying. Okay? No, of course — no. Of course. That was — interior wise, it’s said sarcastically. It was — it was put in the form of a question to a group of extraordinarily hostile people, namely the fake news media. Okay. So — Well, of course. All they had to do was see it was — just, you know, the way it was asked. I was — I was looking at you. I know. I know. What’s that? I was looking at Bill. I was looking at the doctor. I was looking at some of the reporters. I don’t know if you were there. Were you there? I don’t think you were there. No, not you. Not you. Not you. You were there. You — if you’re there, I never forget. You were — You were not? Yeah, I didn’t think you were there. Okay. Okay, hold it one second. Any other questions from any other people? Okay, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. Later this evening, we expect the House to pass the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. I’m grateful that Congress is answering my call to deliver these additional $320 billion in relief for the American worker and for small businesses. At a time when many Americans are enduring significant economic challenges, this bill will help small businesses to keep millions of workers on the payroll. You see states are starting to open up now, and it’s very exciting to see. I think it’s very awe-inspiring. We’re coming out of it, and we’re coming out of it well. And we’re — really, I’m very happy the governors have been — the governors, really, have been doing a really good job working with us, and it’s — it’s, really, pretty impressive to see. I’ve spoken to numerous leaders of countries over the last 48 hours, and they are saying we’re leading the way. We’re really leading the way in so many different ways. I’m also very pleased that Harvard — as you know, it’s Harvard and Stanford and Princeton and numerous other universities and colleges, and also large businesses have sent funds back to us. And in some cases, I stopped funds that I looked at. And we are pleased to report that the funds have either not gone out or it’s about $350 million, and they’ve either not gone out or we’ve renegotiated it and they’re not getting them. So — and it’s — in a couple of cases, they’re sending them back and sending them back immediately. So I think it was very nice. I want to thank Harvard in particular. They acted very quickly and decisively. And they agreed, when they heard the facts, that they should not be getting it. So we appreciate it very much from Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, and other institutions. The bill also includes $30 billion to support small lending institutions serving distressed communities, helping countless African American and Hispanic American small businesses. As we continue our battle against the virus, the data and facts on the ground suggest that we’re making great progress. In 23 states, new cases have declined in the peak — week. Forty percent of American counties have also seen a rapid decline in new cases. Forty-six states reported drop in patients showing coronavirus-like symptoms. That’s a big number. To keep America gaining momentum, every citizen needs to maintain the vigilance. And we all understand that very well; we’ve gone over it many, many times. This includes practicing good hygiene, maintaining social distance, and the voluntary use of face covering. A safe and phased reopening of our economy — it’s very exciting, but it does not mean that we are letting down our guard at all, in any way. On the contrary, continued diligence is an essential part of our strategy to get our country back to work, to take our country back. We’re winning this, and we’re going to win it, and we’re going to keep watching. We’re going to watch very closely for the invisible enemy. With each passing day, we’re learning more and more about this enemy. The scientists at DHS have released a report offering a number of insights about how the virus reacts to different temperatures, climates, and surfaces. The findings confirm that the virus survives better in cold or in drier environments and does less well in warmer and more humid environments. I have to say that, very excitingly, we’re going to have somebody up; Bill will be up in just a little while. It was a great report you gave. And he’s going to be talking about how the virus reacts in sunlight. Wait until you hear the numbers. You won’t even believe them. U.S. trials of the COVID-19 have been going on and have been approved in the United States, Germany, UK, and China. That’s big news. And we’re — a lot of trials are going on. We have a lot of great, brilliant minds working on this, both from the standpoint of a vaccine and therapeutics. We must be careful in all conditions, but we will — we will get this done. We’re very close to a vaccine. Unfortunately, we’re not very close to testing because when the testing starts, it takes a period of time. But we’ll get it done. And I want to thank the head of DHS Science and Technology, Bill Bryan, for what he’s going to be doing and what he’s going to be saying and the report that he’s about to give. I think it’s going to be something that nobody has ever heard. It’ll be brand-new information and very important information. My administration continues to leverage the Defense Production Act to dramatically increase the manufacture and delivery of critical medical supplies. We finalized three contracts to produce 39 million more N95 masks in 90 days. And as you know, we’re also using a sterilization process. Some great equipment that will sterilize the masks up to 20 times per mask. So that’s like ordering 20 times more masks. And it’s working very well. We just want the hospitals and the institutions, where it is, to use it. A lot of people don’t use it. They’re so used to getting a new mask, they don’t want to use it. They want to go and immediately get a new one. We’re asking them to use the sterilization process. Every bit as good — up to 20 times. Think of that. In addition to ramping up our domestic assembly lines, we also have airlifted nearly 750 million pieces of personal protective equipment into the United States through our Project Airbridge, which has been an incredible thing to watch. It’s really a military operation. The Vice President is now providing each governor with an exhaustive count[y]-by-county breakdown of the privately distributed personal protection. And this is equipment and things that are incredible. It’s personal protective equipment. It’s incredible, and it’s all brand new and at the highest level. We’re getting only the highest level. And also, we’re looking at essential gear within their states, and it’s being delivered to different states quickly and as we speak. This way, the governor should know exactly what’s being delivered through a private-sector supply chain within their states, as well as through the Project Airbridge. We’re trying to get it immediately from the plane to the state. When we can’t do that, we bring it into our facilities and get it to the governors. And we’re getting them fast, and we’re notifying them very strongly so they know it’s there. Governors can use this information to quickly ensure that they get materials where and when they are needed. Today, I also want to extend my special thanks to our nation’s incredible county emergency management teams who have been working relentlessly for weeks around the clock, end on end, to serve their communities, help distribute critical supplies, and save countless American lives. We salute these heroic officials on the frontlines. As we continue to develop potential therapies, the FDA has recently begun a national effort to expand access to convalescent plasma donated from the blood of those who have recovered from the virus. The blood of these donors contains antibodies that can potentially reduce the severity of the illness in those who are sick — and frankly, those that are very sick. Nearly 3,000 patients are now enrolled in the Expanded Access Program, receiving transfusions nationwide. And I want to thank all of the people that recovered, for what they’ve done. They — as I said yesterday, they raise their hand when they barely can walk, and they’re saying, “I want to donate blood. I want to donate whatever it is that you want, because we want to help people.” It’s really quite incredible. Convalescent plasma will also be used to manufacture a concentrated antibody treatment that does not have to be matched with a particular blood type. This concentrated antibody treatment could be used as a preventative measure to keep healthcare workers and other high-risk populations from contracting the virus in the first place. A very big deal. Clinical trials of these products are slated to begin within weeks, and we can maybe have a fairly quick solution. I urge Americans to get in there and keep doing what you’re doing, because again, we want those people recovering or recovered from coronavirus to contact their local blood and plasma donation center to learn how they can help. And they’ve been so great, and I just appreciate it. My administration has also partnered with leading — and we have really been establishing some great partnerships with leading technology companies and scientific journals to create a database of 52,000 scholarly articles on the virus that can be analyzed by artificial intelligence. Top AI experts are now using this wealth of data to gain insights into potential therapies. And we’re collaborating with tech firms, universities, and our national labs to harness American supercomputers in the search for treatments and vaccines. That search is going on, and it’s being — I think you’ll see in the future — you’ll see it’s very successful. Ultimately, it’ll be a tremendous success. Great progress is being made at a rapid pace — a pace like no other. We have every hope that with the full might and resources of American science and technology, and with the courage and devotion of the American people who have been so incredible, we will end this plague, and together we will restore the full measure of American strength and power and prosperity. Our country is going to do fantastically well. You see what’s going on. There is a pent-up demand in our country to get it back right where it was and maybe even better, and that’s what’s going to happen. So with that, I’d like to ask Mike Pence to come up — Vice President. Say a few words please, Mike. Thank you, Bill. Thank you, Bill. Thank you very much. So I asked Bill a question that probably some of you are thinking of, if you’re totally into that world, which I find to be very interesting. So, supposing we hit the body with a tremendous — whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light — and I think you said that that hasn’t been checked, but you’re going to test it. And then I said, supposing you brought the light inside the body, which you can do either through the skin or in some other way, and I think you said you’re going to test that too. It sounds interesting. Right. And then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in a minute. One minute. And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning. Because you see it gets in the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs. So it would be interesting to check that. So, that, you’re going to have to use medical doctors with. But it sounds — it sounds interesting to me. So we’ll see. But the whole concept of the light, the way it kills it in one minute, that’s — that’s pretty powerful. Steve, please. Well, we may, and we may go beyond that. We’re going to have to see where it is. And I think people are going to know. You’re going to know. I’m going to know. I think people are going to know just out of common sense. At some point, we won’t have to do that. But until we feel it’s safe, we’re going to be extending. Yeah, but it means we’re going to watch those cases very carefully. I think we’ve all gotten very good at it. We’ve gotten good at tracing. We see where the cases are, where they’re going, and we’re going to be watching it. And it’s called “containment.” At a certain point, we’re going to be able to contain. And, you know, when you see this, a lot of people have been talking about summer. Maybe this is one of the reasons. We’ve — I once mentioned that maybe it does go away with heat and light. And people didn’t like that statement very much. The — the fake news didn’t like it at all. And I just threw it out as a suggestion, but it seems like that’s the case, because when it’s on a surface that would last for a long time, when that surface is outside, it goes away very quickly. It dies very quickly with the sun. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, we’ll look into it, and I have been looking into it. I’ve been talking to a lot of the different senators, but I don’t want to talk about it now. That was a very interesting presentation. Go ahead, Jon. I just told you I’m not talking about it now. I’ll talk about it later. I’d like to talk about something that, right now, is of more interest to people. Yeah. Sure. It wouldn’t be through injection. We’re talking about through almost a cleaning, sterilization of an area. Maybe it works, maybe it doesn’t work. But it certainly has a big effect if it’s on a stationary object. But so are you saying, on surfaces, the heat, the hot summer, and whatever other conditions — humidity and lack of humidity — that that would have an impact so that on surfaces, where it can be picked up, it will die fairly quickly in the summer, whereas in the winter, it wouldn’t die so quickly? If it’s on somebody’s hands, right? And they haven’t touched their face and all of the things that we’ve all been — I know, but if they’re outside — right — and their hands are exposed to the sun, will that kill it as though it were on a piece of metal or something else? This is sort of semi-non-porous, right? This, right? Wait, wait, wait, wait. Okay, go ahead. In fact, I’m thinking about moving outside to the Rose Garden. No, it’s a very interesting question, actually. Okay. Please, go ahead. In the back. Phil? And we are working with other countries on vaccines, as you know. Yeah. Go ahead. Please. Say it? In the beginning — what? Well, I’ll tell you one thing: I think a lot of people are going to go outside all of a sudden. People that didn’t want to go outside, they’ll be going. This was a — to me this is very — really, a very interesting meeting. We covered it in great detail. And these are incredible people at that — we could call it a laboratory, because that’s essentially what it is. It’s a super laboratory. It’s a lot of things going on in that laboratory. A lot of very interesting things going on in that laboratory. Yeah. Sure, Mike. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. Yeah. Go ahead. I haven’t at all. I haven’t at all. What are you say- — we’ll see what happens. We’ve had a lot of very good results and we had some results that perhaps aren’t so good. I don’t know. I just read about one, but I also read many times good. So I haven’t at all. And it’s a — it’s a great — for malaria, for lupus, for other things. And we’ll see what it is. But, I guess, Deborah, they have many, many studies going on on that. So we’ll — we’ll be able to learn. I have not. I haven’t seen it. I have not seen it. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I know a lot about economists. Yeah. Sure. Well, let me go. We — we know the rest of the question, right? So I — I know a lot about economists, and the answer is they have no idea. I think I have as good an idea as anybody, and I think our economy will start to pick up very substantially, as soon as the states get open. And that’s happening as we speak, and it’s actually very exciting, and people are just — just thrilled to see it, because our country has to get back to work. They want to get back to work. You see that, whether it’s a demonstration or just in talking to people. They’re going to get back to work, and they’re going to get back to work very fast. States are advanced. I look at Gavin Newson — was — Newsom was very nice today. He wrote a beautiful statement about — we sent him a lot of — a lot of things that he needed. Okay? Things — different things that he needed. We got — we got it taken care of. They’ve done very well in California, as you know. They’re doing really well in Florida. They’re doing well in a lot of places. New York and New Jersey got hit very hard. They’re doing very well. I spoke again with Governor Cuomo, with Governor Murphy. They’re doing — they’re doing a great job. And here’s the thing: We have to see. They got hit hard. Everyone close together — tight in. People don’t realize New Jersey is very tight. You realize that because you’ve been covering it for a long time, but very tight. New York obviously is very tight. They’re doing a terrific job. I — I think for the most part — I’ll be able to tell you when it’s all over, but a lot of the governors have done a really terrific job. Some I don’t think have, to be honest. But we’ll be talking about that in future. Yes, go ahead. The answer is yes. And the answer is — as you know, and as I’ve said many times — we’re very advanced in testing. Other countries are calling us to find out what are we doing. And, by the way, within two weeks, you’ll see numbers and you’ll see different forms of testing — just like we came up with the Abbott Laboratories machine, which gives it to you in five minutes — that everybody wants. Everybody is asking, “Can we get that?” But you can only make them so fast. But, as you know, we’ve done more testing than every other nation combined, and that’s a big statement. And, you know, when they talk about different tests and different things, we’re also a bigger nation than most. And so, when they look at statistics — because, statistically, we’re doing phenomenally, in terms of mortality, in terms of all of the different elements that you can judge. When you look, Germany and ourselves are doing very well. We are very accurate in the reporting of numbers. In fact, I’ll go a step further. As you know, in New York, they actually added quite a few deaths to a list that was done in New York. And they added a number of deaths. We’re very, very — highly accurate. And then you’ll look at certain lists of other countries. Some are so obvious just to look at, where obviously the number is ridiculous, in the form of low, because they’re not accurate counts. They’re not even close to accurate counts. In fact, they’re insulting to look at them. So we’ve done very well. Again, testing — we’re doing very well on testing. We’ve tested far more than anybody else anywhere in the world. And within a short period of time, you’ll be hearing about new tests that are coming out that are going to be incredible. Steve, go ahead. No, I don’t agree with him on that. No, I think we’re doing a great job in testing. I don’t agree. If he said that, I don’t agree with him. Yes. Yeah, well, they’re doing it. I’ll tell you, Steve, they — they’re doing it at a level that they’ve never done it before. Abbott is a great company. It’s a very big, highly respected company. They came up with this machine where you do it — I’ve done it both ways. I’ve done it this way and I didn’t like it. And I’ve done it the Abbott way, where you literally just touch and, five minutes later, you know the answer. And we use them in the White House. I think you folks have been given that opportunity, which is much more pleasant than the first way that they looked at you. Right? We’re making them — hundreds of thousands of machines. The advantage to the other tests and the laboratory tests is we can get millions and millions of those tests done. It takes a day or two days. But — you know, because it’s really a delivery situation, more than anything else. The test itself goes quickly once it gets to the laboratory. But as we have found and as we have, I think, shown everybody in the room, we have many laboratories. We have thou- — we have so many laboratories. Nobody — nobody — a lot of the governors did not know that we have this capacity, but we have many laboratories all over our country. Every state has laboratories and some have a lot of them. So I think we will — we will come up with things as time goes by. Again, when I started, we ended up — we — we started with nothing, essentially. What — we started with a broken test, a test that didn’t work. We started with a test that did very few people, not millions of people. The problem is, if we did 350- — if we did 350 million tests, one for each person, the media would say, “Oh, you should have done two for each person.” No matter what you do, it doesn’t make any difference. It’s just like the ventilators. I talk about it all the time. Nobody ever mentions ventilators. One of the hardest things are ventilators. And now we’re making thousands a week — thousands of ventilators. And they’re calling from Mexico; they’re calling from many countries. I’ve received today four calls. “Would it be possible to send ventilators?” Right? I got four calls today. I got three calls yesterday. No country is equipped like we are. We have 11 — we have 11 different places making ventilators. Our country, as you know, doesn’t need them now. Our governors are very happy. But that’s different than test, because with a test you can always say, “Oh, we — we need more.” No, I think we’ve done incredibly well with — obviously, with ventilators. We’re — we also have 500 million masks — 500 million masks that are very shortly going to be here. We’ve made millions of masks. We have ordered millions of masks that have arrived and been distributed. We gave one hospital in New York City 300,000 masks. Before the virus, they were using 10,000. And now we got them 300,000, and they got rid of them very quick, which I — quickly — which I sort of say, “How did that happen? Why?” Because they became very valuable — the masks. I say, “How did that happen?” But we got — we have — we’ve done an amazing job, and we’ve worked with the governors. And when the governors weren’t able — again, they’re the first line — when they weren’t able to get something — like ventilators, they couldn’t get ventilators. They could’ve bought them. You could have bought them, but most of them — many of them chose not to. So they all needed ventilators. We got the job done. We have — I’ll be introducing the team when we’re finished with this whole nightmare, this whole curse, this whole plague. But the team that worked on the ventilators was incredible. And the team that work — and it’s a little bit interchangeable, but the team that’s working on the testing is truly an incredible team. These are brilliant people. And they’re doing it for the country; they’re not doing it for other reasons. Some have been very successful. They’re doing it for the country. Yes. Great. I’ll be signing it probably tonight. I don’t know if it was a vicious attack, but certainly some people do look at it that way. I’ve spoken to Mitch about it; I’ve spoken to numerous senators about it. And we’re working with senators that are on the other side of the issue, and we’ll see what happens. But we’re looking to do what’s right for the people of this country. We’re looking to do what’s right for a particular state. And we’ll see what happens. But it’s certainly the next thing we’re going to be discussing because some states have — in all fairness, Jon, some states have not done very well for many years, long before the virus came. You know, you can’t blame the plague — this horrible plague that came in and, all of a sudden — you know, they can’t blame that. You look at Illinois — he’s got a lot of problems long before the virus came in. And so we’ll be talking about it. It’ll be a subject for a period of time. And right now, we’ve — we’ve made this incredible deal for the workers and for small business. And I’m very happy that Harvard didn’t get covered. We actually never sent them the check. But they were very nice about it. We never sent them the money. The old-fashioned way is the check; the new way is send them the money. And we didn’t send them the money. And — but they were very understanding and they were very nice about it. So was Princeton, so was Stanford, so were a number of other schools that you just don’t associate with this money. So were big companies, as you know. You know, many of them. It was a relatively small amount of money compared to the whole. A very small amount of money compared. But we want it to be fair. We want it to go to the people that it’s supposed to go to. I’m open. I’m open. I’m open to ideas that are going to be great for the people of this country. And if we can help states, we’re always going to help states. Now, there’s different ways of helping states. Some ways are better than others. So we’re looking. It is interesting that the states that are in trouble do happen to be blue. It is interesting, you know, if you look around. I mean, the states that seem to have the problem happen to be Democrat. No, but New York and New Jersey were in a lot of trouble long before the plague came. I mean, they were — you know, they had a lot of problems long before the plague came. I spoke with Governor Cuomo about it, spoke to Governor Murphy about it. I spoke with Gavin Newsom about it. And we — I’m speaking to a lot of people about it, because it’s probably going to be the next thing on the list. A lot of people understand very well what Mitch is saying, and they also understand the other side of the — the problem. And I’ll be speaking about it. We’re going to do the right thing for our country. The right thing for our country and the right thing for a lot of great people. Okay? Yeah, please. Yeah, here we go. Here we go. The new — the new headline is: “Trump Asks People to go Outside. That’s Dangerous.” Here we go. Same old group. You ready? I hope people enjoy the sun. And if it has an impact, that’s great. I’m just hearing this — not really for the first time. I mean, there’s been a rumor that — you know, a very nice rumor — that you go outside in the sun, or you have heat and it does have an effect on other viruses. But now we get it from one of the great laboratories of the world. I have to say, it covers a lot more territory than just this. This is — this is probably an easy thing, relatively speaking, for you. I would like you to speak to the medical doctors to see if there’s any way that you can apply light and heat to cure. You know — but if you could. And maybe you can, maybe you can’t. Again, I say, maybe you can, maybe you can’t. I’m not a doctor. But I’m like a person that has a good you know what. Deborah, have you ever heard of that? The heat and the light, relative to certain viruses, yes, but relative to this virus? Yeah. I think it’s a great thing to look at. I mean, you know. Okay? Hey — hey, Phil. Hey, Phil. I’m the President and you’re fake news. And you know what I’ll say to you? I’ll say it very nicely. I know you well. I know you well. Because I know the guy; I see what he writes. He’s a total faker. So, are you ready? Are you ready? Are you ready? It’s just a suggestion from a brilliant lab by a very, very smart, perhaps brilliant, man. He’s talking about sun. He’s talking about heat. And you see the numbers. So that’s it; that’s all I have. I’m just here to present talent. I’m here to present ideas, because we want ideas to get rid of this thing. And if heat is good and if sunlight is good, that’s a great thing as far as I’m concerned. Go ahead. They could have one of what? Yeah. Oxford is one. Johnson & Johnson is working. They’re also working together. You have many companies working together on a vaccine. Oh, we’ll scale it up. If we had a vaccine, it’ll be scaled up very quickly. In fact, some of the companies — Johnson & Johnson is one — is scaling up already, before they have the final answer. A number of companies are doing that. You’ll save a lot of time. The normal is you scale up after. I have to say, the FDA has been fantastic. Stephen Hahn — Dr. Hahn — has been fantastic. They’re moving along rapidly. Rapidly. No, I don’t want to put a timescale because then the — the media, the so-called — so-called “media” — “lamestream” media will say, “He said a time.” I don’t want to say times, because every time I say a time, if you don’t hit it, they’ll say — so I don’t want to talk about time. But I will say that there’s been tremendous progress made over the last month. Yeah. I did. I did. He called me a few days ago. I will tell you, he sounded incredible. I was actually surprised. I thought he’d be like, “Oh, Donald, how are you…” He was ready to go. I could — I’m very surprised to tell you this: It’s like the old Boris. Tremendous energy. Tremendous drive. I was very surprised, because he called me almost, you know, pretty close to when he got out of the hospital. I think he’s doing great. I think he’s doing great. He was so sharp and energetic. Pretty incredible. He’s an incredible guy. He’s a friend of ours and — and a friend of mine. He loves our country. He loves his country a lot. But he loves our country. He respects our country. And they’re lucky to have him over there. Please. I hope he’s not in medical trouble. I hope he’s — I’ve gotten along very well with him. And you know, here we are. You would have been in a war with North Korea if I didn’t get elected President. Remember, I was going to be the one that took us into war, with my first day in office. Okay? Here we are. Look at what’s happened. Withdrawal. We’re bringing people home. We’re not going to serve as policemen all over the world. I don’t want to be policemen all over the world. And yet I’ve rebuilt our military to a level that it’s never been built at before. But it’s never recognized by the fake news. Go ahead. Uh, I think the report was incorrect. Let me just put it that way. I think the report was done by a network that was incorrect. I’m hearing they used old documents. But I — that’s what I hear. I hear the report was an incorrect report. I hope it was an incorrect report. I don’t want to say. Yeah. With who? I don’t want to say. I won’t say that. We have a good relationship with North Korea — as good as you can have. I mean, we have a good relationship with North Korea. I have a good relationship with Kim Jong Un, and I hope he’s okay. And somebody would say, “Oh, that’s terrible.” No, it’s not terrible. I hope he’s okay. And I think it was a fake report done by CNN. What do you have? Go ahead. No, that’s enough. Go ahead. The problem is you don’t write the truth, so, you know, as far as I’m concerned — — I want to go — I want to go to the next question. No, not CNN, please. Go ahead. You don’t — I told you — — CNN is fake news. Don’t talk to me. Go ahead, please. Okay, next question. Just ask one, please. About what? The controversy? I did. I had a good talk with the governor of Georgia. I did convey the message. I didn’t like the fact that he’s leaving certain things — I want the states to open more than he does — much more than he does. But I didn’t like to see spas at this early stage, nor did the doctors. Is that a correct statement, Deborah? I didn’t like to see spas opening, frankly. I didn’t like to see a lot of things happening. And I wasn’t happy with it. And I wasn’t happy with Brian Kemp. I wasn’t at all happy, because — and I could have done something about it if I wanted to, but I’m saying let the governors do it. But I wasn’t happy with Brian Kemp. Spas, beauty parlors, tattoo parlors — no, that’s — that — And, by the way, I want them to open — excuse me. Excuse me. I want them to open, and I want him to open as soon as possible. And I want the state to open. But I wasn’t happy with Brian Kemp. I will tell you that right now. Yeah, go ahead. No, he didn’t. No, he didn’t defy me at all. That’s your language. He didn’t defy me. You know what happened? I said, “You make your own decision.” I told him that. I said, “You’re not in the guidelines, but I’m letting you make your own decision. But I want people to be safe, and I want the people in Georgia to be safe, and I don’t want this thing to flare up because you’re deciding to do something that is not in the guidelines.” And I went to Deborah and Dr. Fauci and other people, and they weren’t thrilled about it. And I could have stopped him, but I decided — and we all agreed — they got to watch it closely. So we’ll see what happens. I told him very distinctly — I said — Mike was there — I said, “You do what you think is best.” But if you ask me, am I happy about it? I’m not happy about it, and I’m not happy about Brian Kemp. Go ahead. If we do it quickly, that would be great. Because you see it in the charts. I mean, you have to ask the question, but you do see it in the charts. Go ahead. Please. Yeah, that’s a — that’s a problem. Look, I can’t tell you what’s going to happen in an election. Yeah. Great question. I can’t tell you what’s going to happen. We have a sleepy guy in a basement of a house that the press is giving a free pass to who doesn’t want to do debates because of COVID. And lots of things are happening. Right? And I watched a couple of interviews, and I say, “Oh, I look forward to this.” But they’re keeping him sheltered because of the coronavirus. And he’s not moving around; he’s not moving too much. And then I watch what the press does to the Republican Party — and to me, in particular. We had the greatest economy ever put together. We were doing — this is a month and a half ago. We were doing numbers, the like — the likes of which we’ve never done. African American, Asian American, Hispanic American — best employment numbers ever in the history of our country. Our employment numbers, the best in the history of our country: almost 160 million people. The stock market: record numbers, many, many times during my tenure. Many, many times. But now we have a country that we had to close because of this. And, frankly, if we didn’t close it, we would have lost millions of people possibly, but certainly we would have lost a million people. You take the high number and cut it in half, cut it in half again. But whether it would have been 600, 700, 800, you take a look at the travesty that there is. You take a look at this horrible, horrible scene of hospitals with bodies in black body bags, right? Multiply that times 10, 15, or even 20, because that would have happened. So we did the right thing. So far, we did the right thing. So far, we’ve called it right. We’ve mobilized like it was a military operation. And it was largely a militarily operation, between ventilators and testing and so many other things. And we’ve had a lot of good partners. Not all good partners, but we had a lot of good partners. Gavin Newsom today thanked us very much. Gavin Newsom — California — thanked us so much for getting him all the things that he needed so he can keep going and keep doing a good job. We got it to him today. Tomorrow, we’re getting him even more. It would’ve been harder for him to get it than us. We agreed to get it. We got it on time. He said, “Promises made, promises kept.” He actually said that in a statement today. We’ve done a good job. We’ve gotten very little credit for the great job we’ve done because of the media. Because the media is not an honest media, in my opinion. Much of it, not all of it. We have some great reporters that I have tremendous respect, but much of the media is not honest. So I can’t tell you about the election. You have a Democrat Party and you have a large portion of the media automatically giving the guy a pass. He’s been given a pass. Whether or not he’s going to be the nominee, I have no idea, but he’s getting a pass. And the media isn’t covering the great job that we’ve done, whether it’s Mike’s task force, which has been incredible; whether it’s the way we mobilized in a war-like operation to build these incredibly complex and very expensive ventilators. They’re very expensive to build and very complex. The job we’ve done has been an amazing job. And I’m not talking about me; I’m talking about everybody. I’m talking about the generals, the admirals, Deborah and Tony, and — and now Bill. I mean, something we hadn’t heard today. So I can’t tell you what’s going to happen with the election. I think that had we not gone through a fake Russia, Russia, Russia deal; an impeachment hoax — it was a total hoax. From the day I got elected — but, you know, it wasn’t the day; it was many months before I got elected — this has been a witch hunt that was illegal. It was an illegal witch hunt. It was illegal. And with all of that, I’m doing fine, because the people see we’re doing a great job. And you know what? We’ll continue to do a great job. If we had an honest press, this country would be even greater. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. A lot of tremendous things are happening. The number of new positive cases continue to decline nationwide. Recent hotspots appear to be stabilizing. The hotspots are, in some cases, very interesting what’s going on. And they’re going down; they’re going in the right direction. Cases in the Boston area are now declining. The Chicago curve appears to have flattened, which is terrific. And Detroit is past its peak. These trends demonstrate that our aggressive strategy to battle the virus is working and that more states will soon be in a position to gradually and safely reopen. It’s very exciting. It was very exciting, even today, watching and seeing what’s happening. And people are getting ready and they’re all excited. I do want to mention a man who’s done a very good job for us: Dr. Robert Redfield. He was totally misquoted in the media on a statement about the fall season and the virus. Totally misquoted. I spoke to him. He said it was ridiculous. He was talking about the flu and corona coming together at the same time. And corona could be just some little flare-ups that we’ll take care of. We’re going to knock it out. We’ll knock it out fast. But that’s what he was referring to: coming together at the same time. And I think rather than waiting, I’d ask Dr. Redfield to come up, say a couple of words just to straighten that out, because he didn’t say it was a big — a big explosion. The headline in the Washington Post was totally inaccurate. The statement wasn’t bad in the Post, but the headline was ridiculous, which is — as I say, that’s fake news. And CNN is fake news like crazy, and they had just totally the wrong story, which they knew. They were asked to change it, and they wouldn’t do that. And it was false. So I’ll ask Dr. Redfield, who is, you know, a real professional, to come up and explain. Please. Thank you, Doctor. But I don’t know what’s to follow up. He was misquoted. Totally misquoted. He said they could come together. They didn’t talk about that. And his whole purpose in making the statement was to get a flu shot, so that next fall we don’t have such a big season of flu — and we possibly won’t. But, as you said, there’s — it’s possible, if the corona even comes back — and he doesn’t know that it’s going to and neither do I. We spoke a great length. And I think the doctor will speak, if you’d like to continue. But we may have some embers — and we’re going to put them out — of corona. But we may have a big flu season. But that’s different. Flu is very different from corona. Yeah, go ahead. Sure. And you may not even have corona coming back, just so you understand. Doctor, would you like to explain that. What does the headline say? What does the headline say? Go ahead, read the headline. That’s not what he says. It’s not what he said. The headline doesn’t correspond to the story. You weren’t called. And, Doctor, wouldn’t you say there’s a good chance that COVID will not come back? And if it does comes back, it’s in a very small, confined area that we put out. Go ahead. And if it comes back, though, it won’t be coming back in the form that it was. It will be coming back in smaller doses that we can contain. But what the doctor was saying — and I spoke to him a great length — he was saying, if it should come back “together.” Now you have a flu and you have the embers of corona. But, in my opinion, from everything I’ve seen, it can never be like anything that we’ve witnessed right now. Would you say that’s a correct statement? It’s nothing like what we’re talking — what we’ve just gone though, we will not go through. You could have some embers of corona, and you could have a big flu system. And if they combine, if they come together — if they come together, it’s not great. But we will not go through what we went through for the last two months. Yeah, Jeff. Is that a correct statement? What — it is estimated it might not come back at all, Jeff. It may not come back at all. He’s talking about a worst-case scenario where you have a big flu and you have some corona. And if it does come back, it’s not going to come back — and I’ve spoken to 10 different people — it’s not going to be like it was. Also, we have much better containment now. Before, nobody knew about it. Nobody knew anything about it. We understand it. Now, if we have pockets — a little pocket here or there — we’re going to have to put out. It goes out and it’s going to go out fast. We’re going to be watching for it. But it’s all possible. It’s also possible it doesn’t come back at all. I didn’t say it’s not. I said if it does, it’s not going to come back on anything near what we went through. But you could have a mess, where they come at the same time. And if they come at the same time — the flu is not the greatest thing in the world, Jeff. It’s not the greatest thing either. If they come at the same time, you have them both. But if we have embers of corona coupled with the flu, that’s not going to be pleasant, but it’s not going to be what we’ve gone through in any way, shape, or form. Yeah. Because we have to have them for other reasons. Something else could come. I mean, we didn’t know about corona; now we know about corona. But look at what happened. And now, we did have the H1N1 swine flu. We had that. We have other things that have happened. We had various forms of flu, but nothing like what we’ve had here. Nothing at all like what we’ve had here with the virus. But something could happen. I think that the stockpiles — we’re making hundreds of thousands of ventilators right now. Nobody writes about that. You know, at the one time, all they talked about was ventilators, right? Because you didn’t think it was possible for me to solve that problem. And I solved it and nobody can believe it. I just spoke to world leaders today who desperately need ventilators. They said, “The job you’ve done…” And we’re sending 500 to Mexico, then another 500 to France. We’re sending some to Spain. We’re sending some to Italy. We have them — they’re being made by the thousands. And world leaders — I spoke to Prime Minister — I mean, I went through a lot of different calls today. I won’t even tell you. But I went through — I can give you a list if you want — but I went through a lot of calls to a lot of leaders. Spoke with Pakistan; they would like to have some ventilators. We’re going to get them some ventilators. But they all said to me one thing: It was incredible that you solved the ventilator problem because that was a big problem. The testing problem. We’ve done more than any other nation in the world. Go a step further: If you added up the testing of every nation in the world, put them together, we’ve done substantially more than that. You people aren’t satisfied. So let’s say we had 350 million people in the United States, right? Let’s say. And if we gave every one of those people a test 10 times — so we give 350 people a test 10 times — the fake news media would say, “Where’s the 11th time? He didn’t do his job. Trump didn’t do his job.” Because you have a lot of bad reporting out there. It’s very sad. And it’s so bad — But you’re one of — you’re one of the leaders of the bad reporting. You know? Okay, let’s get onto another subject. I wanted that to be — I wanted that to be cleared up. If you want, we can get on to it later, but I want the Vice President to speak. But you ought to get the news accurately. You ought to write it — if you — if you take a look at what you wrote about the ventilators — and when we became the king of ventilators — we’re making different factories all over. Ventilators by the thousands. In fact, Mike got back from Wisconsin. The first thing he did, he called up. I said, “How’s it going?” He said, “You’re not going to believe.” He just saw a plant, a factory where they’re making ventilators. I think I can say, the words were “unbelievable.” He said it was unbelievable what he saw — the quality of the equipment, the professionalism. A tremendous number of — how many workers would you say were there? Nobody thought this could be done. The fake news was very unhappy that it was done. But you guys don’t ask me about ventilators anymore. Everybody. Everybody. Because you never mention it. You never mention it. There’s no story that’s what a great job we’ve done with ventilators. We’re now supplying ventilators all over the world. Because no other country could have done what we did. And you should say that’s a great story. Instead you say, “Trump was slow” or — slow? We were so fast. Plus, we put the ban on so much earlier. When Nancy Pelosi, as an example — you don’t say this — when she’s having her rally in San Francisco — in Chinatown, in San Francisco. Nobody wants to say that. If we didn’t — and Dr. Fauci said this — if we didn’t close our country to China, we would have been so infected, like nobody’s ever seen. When you saw the chart — and we were at the top of the list, in terms of success — nobody wrote it. I said, “Where — is anybody going to use that chart?” Nobody wrote it. In terms of mortality. You saw that. Nobody wrote it. Germany and our country: the most successful, in terms of mortality. Nobody wrote it. It would be great if you wrote the truth, but let’s get on with it because I want Mike to speak. And then we’ll take some more questions, on the assumption you’d like to and I think you probably will. It’s been encouraging to watch states begin to open up as — and it really has been; it’s a beautiful thing to see — as restrictions are lifted. We must maintain vigilance and continue practicing social distancing. I encourage governors to follow a careful, phased approach. And I want to remind all Americans to adhere to our guidelines. Very important. The governors are going to adhere, hopefully, or they’re going to do what they think is best. I want them to do what they think is best, but ideally they’ll adhere. Wash your hands, avoid close physical contact as much as possible, and wear a face covering when distancing is impractical. There were cases. We’ve flattened the curve and really made tremendous progress, but we must guard against a dangerous rebound. We don’t want to rebound. That’s so important. This is what we were just talking about. We don’t want a rebound. The doctor doesn’t want to rebound. These people definitely don’t want to rebound. I don’t think you want one, do you, huh? You especially. We don’t want to rebounds after all this death — death — that we’ve suffered. Not work — I don’t view it “work”; I view it “death” that was unnecessary. It should have never happened. It should have never left that little area where it started. You know it and I know it and they know it. In our all-out war against the virus, we continue to make great strides on testing. Famous testing. Doing more than anybody else anywhere in the world. Nothing funny about that, Jon. Most of the governors have never faced a situation like this before, but we’re helping them find unused testing capacity within their states — tremendous testing capacity that the governors, in many cases, didn’t know they had. And additional capabilities are coming on line every day. We’re coming up with new equipment, like the Abbott Laboratories equipment — on site, five minutes. Great success. Everybody wants it. But you can only make so many of those machines, so we have many other forms of testing. We have many other machines that do it very quickly and by the millions — by the millions. Our task force issued its reopening guidelines earlier than April 30th to give governors the time that they needed to develop testing capability and capacity and customized plans for their states, which many of them did. We’ve had some governors do a fantastic job on testing and on a lot of other things. I spoke — as you know, Governor Cuomo was here. He had a — we had a great conversation on testing yesterday, and they’re doing a really good job in New York. We’re working very closely with each of the states to help them succeed. I spoke earlier today with Governor Newsom, California. And that was all about testing, that conversation. He has been scaling up really well. Really good job. And I agreed to help him get some of the critical supplies that California needs to make use of the tremendous capacity that they’ve found. This is a tremendous testing capacity. And I’m going to do it very quickly. He needs certain things. I’m going to — we’re going to get that to him very quickly. Now, could he get it himself? Yes. But I can get it faster. He understands that. And he’s done a great job. And we’re going to have it to him — we’re going to have a lot of it to him over the next two days. And we’re going to beef it up the following week, get him a lot of additional. He’s done a really terrific job in California. Some of the governors have done a fantastic job, working with us. I told the governor of Georgia, Brian Kemp, that I disagree strongly with his decision to open certain facilities which are in violation of the phase one guidelines for the incredible people of Georgia. They’re incredible people. I love those people. They are — they’re great. They’ve been strong, resolute. But, at the same time, he must do what he thinks is right. I want him to do what he thinks is right, but I disagree with him on what he’s doing. But I want to let the governors do — now, if I see something totally egregious, totally out of line, I’ll do. But I think spas and beauty salons and tattoo parlors and barbershops in phase one — we’re going to have phase two very soon — is just too soon. I think it’s too soon. And I love the people. I love — I love those people that use all of those things: the spas and the beauty parlors and barbershops, tattoo parlors. I love them. But they can wait a little bit longer. Just a little bit. Not — not much. Because safety has to predominate. We have to have that. So I told the governor, very simply, that I disagree with his decision, but he has to do what he thinks is right. I’m excited to announce that, in the coming weeks, the Air Force Thunderbirds — they’re incredible — and the Navy Blue Angels — equally incredible — will be performing air shows over America’s major cities and some of the cities that aren’t major cities. They’re going to be doing a lot of work — a lot of very dangerous flying. It’s dangerous, you know — the odds when you start going at massive speeds and you’re 18 inches away from each other. That’s dangerous work. Your son is a great pilot. And I don’t know if he could be — could he be a — could he be a Thunderbird? I don’t know. I think — I think he probably could, from what I hear. I don’t know if I’d want him to be, because it is — it’s incredible what they’re able to do. And to sacrifice our frontline — what we’re doing is we’re paying tribute to our frontline healthcare workers confronting COVID. And it’s really a signal to all Americans to remain vigilant during the outbreak. This is a — a tribute to them, to our warriors. Because they are equal warriors to those incredible pilots and all of the fighters that we have for the more traditional fights that we win. And we win. If we want to win, we always win. Sometimes we don’t want to win, so we just go to a standstill. But that’s always — that’s not the way this country works. Operation America Strong was the idea of our great military men and women — the Thunderbirds and the Blue Angels crews who wanted to show support to the American medical workers who, just like military members in a time of war, are fiercely running torward the fight. It’s going to be great. I want to see those shows. I’ve seen them many times and I can’t get enough of them. And on July 4th, we’ll be doing what we had at the Mall, as you know. We’re going to be doing it. Last year was a tremendous success and I would imagine we’ll do it — hopefully, I can use the term “forever.” That was a great success as you remember, even though it was pouring. It was raining so hard. It was raining at — that was about as hard as I’ve seen in a while, but it was an amazing success. Didn’t bother the pilots. It didn’t bother the military. It didn’t bother the crews that we had there. So we’re going to be doing that again on July 4th. Our great military is operating at 100 percent during this crisis and thousands of troops are deployed alongside of civilians in the COVID hotspots, as you know. You see them all over. I spoke — when I spoke with Governor Cuomo, and when I spoke to Gavin Newsom, and many of the other governors, they wanted to know if we could have some military help with the medical, and we — we gave it to them. And in every case, they said, “Fantastic.” I mean, just fantastic. In New York City, Mayor de Blasio called me to say it was inspiring to watch. He was there when the military came in. He said it gave everybody spirit when he saw the professionalism and the spirit that they had. They walked in and they helped a lot of — a lot of people: doctors, nurses, respiratory technicians, and professionals. It was an incredible thing. But they all — everybody that saw them going to work said that was something special. So we’re going to have some tremendous air shows all throughout our country. And that’s in honor of what we’re all going through together, and the people that are helping us so much, and, unfortunately, the people who have passed away from something that should never have been allowed to happen. Following around-the-clock negotiations yesterday, the Senate answered my call to replenish the Paycheck Protection Program so that millions of additional American workers can keep getting a paycheck. We just increased it by $310 billion dollars. I urged the House to pass the bill without delay. In our first round of funding, we’ve provided nearly $350 billion dollars, and it went at record speed to American workers and small businesses. And it’s really been an incredible, incredible success. I want to thank the banks. We have the big banks, the little banks, the commercial banks of all kinds. We had the community banks — who were fantastic, by the way. Community banks. And as you know — this was an interesting story in recent days — I’ve called for Harvard — that’s Harvard University, which has a $40 billion endowment fund — to return the money that it was allocated under the CARES Act. And I’m pleased to announce that Harvard has announced today that they will not accept the funds, nor will Stanford University or many of the others that were involved both on a university level. Also on company level, some of the companies were bigger than people had represented or bigger than people had thought and strong enough that they didn’t need the money. So there’s a certain amount of money that we are not sending. As soon as I heard it, I said, “Stop funds.” And for the most part, I guess, they stopped it, Mike, right? They stopped it. But we’re not — they’re not accepting the money, and that’s great. And so I want to thank Harvard, I want to thank Stanford, and I want to thank the other companies in the case. It’s broken differently between colleges and companies, but I want to thank the companies and the other great universities. And there’s some great ones. The legislation passed by the Senate yesterday also reserves $30 billion in loans for small financial institutions that serve minority and distressed communities. This is very important. We’re determined to protect our African American, Hispanic American, and minority workers who have been hit so hard by this hidden enemy. My administration is pursuing a comprehensive strategy to address the full spectrum of needs in these communities, supporting both health and economic revitalization. First, my administration is committed to providing the testing that is needed to fight the virus in distressed communities. In the last month alone, we’ve already sent over $1.4 billion to our nation’s 13,000 community healthcare centers — think of that, 13,000 — to increase testing and treatment in the underserved areas. We’re also expanding access to telehealth. Telehealth has become a big deal. You know, I’ve been reading about it for years, and all of a sudden, because of this, it’s become a big — a big thing. People can’t leave their houses. They didn’t want to leave their houses for various reasons, including they wanted to follow the guidelines. The legislation passed by the Senate yesterday — and I want to thank everybody. A great, great vote. Great. It’s — as you know, it was a unanimous vote. How often do you see that? But the legislation passed by the Senate yesterday includes an additional $25 billion to further expand testing, and provides even more funding for community health centers and various forms of epidemics and pandemics. And we’ll be working on that because, you know, as per a couple of your statements and questions before, we want to work on that for the future. We hope this doesn’t happen again for — again, ever. But, you know, last time it was of this magnitude: 1917. That’s a long time ago. So we want to be prepared. And we are prepared. And, as I told you, we’re building up hospital — not only our stockpile, which is being up greatly — being built up greatly — but also hospital stockpiles. We’re getting them what they need. We’re working out cost arrangements with them. And we’re getting them a lot of the ventilators, which are the hardest thing for them to get, both from a cost standpoint and a technical standpoint. At the same time, we’re also supporting the establishment of new testing sites focused on these communities. Forty sites have launched so far, and there are plans to launch dozens more in the next three weeks. We’re — we’re coming up with testing apparatus and testing plans that are incredible when you look at the numbers. And some people are very, very big on testing. I’m big on testing, but some people are much less big than I am, I will tell you, and they’re professionals. But we want to have it so that nobody can talk about, “Gee whiz, I wish we had more testing.” Nobody has done it like we’ve done it, and nobody will. And we’re getting very much stronger. We have incredible professionals doing it. So many different tests have now evolved, people are finding it even hard to believe. My administration is working closely with governors to ensure that they have the testing infrastructure in place to reduce further spread of the virus if they’re so inclined to use the testing apparatus, including strategies for older individuals, low-income Americans, minorities, and Native Americans. As part of the effort, the White House Task Force, headed up by Mike, who has done incredible — I’ll say it every time. I’ll say it to anybody that wants to listen: Mike Pence has done an incredible job. Really, an incredible job. Thank you. Is providing technical assistance to all 50 states through one-on-one phone calls as they develop and implement their plans. In addition, my administration is committed to restoring black and Hispanic communities to full economic health. They want to be healthy, economically and physically, and that’s what we’re doing. To that end, today I’m directing the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council, led by Secretary Ben Carson, to focus its effort on supporting underserved communities impacted by the coronavirus. And so Ben Carson is working on that with Mike and myself and a lot of other people. I’m going to ask Tim Scott, who was so helpful with the Opportunity Zones. That’s an economic answer to a lot of problems. And Tim Scott was fantastic, and so I’m going to ask him to get involved with you. And I’m sure he’ll be willing to do it from South Carolina. I also asked the council to identify what additional funding will be required from Congress beyond what has already been provided. We’re really building ourself a strong base and we’re building ourself a wall that’s very different from the kind of walls that you’ve been hearing me talking about. But it nevertheless, in many ways, performs the same function. And hopefully it’s going to perform it equally as well. Furthermore, the council will seek input from the private sector and community leaders on how we can best support minority and distressed communities. As President, I’m absolutely determined to deliver a great future for Americans of every race, religion, color, and creed. Before our nation was attacked by this horrible enemy, our African American and Hispanic American citizens were prospering like never before. Best employment numbers ever. Not only African American, Asian American, Hispanic American — every American. We were breaking records at every level. We had almost 160 million people employed. We were never even close to that number. And we’re also breaking them economically — highest stock market numbers, highest numbers of every kind. And I think we’re going to be back there, and I think it’s going to be much sooner rather than later. And I think we’ll surpass those numbers, including our employment numbers. But I’ll not rest until that prosperity has been fully restored. And, again, I really believe that we’re going to lift those numbers higher than ever before. And it won’t be as long as people might think. A lot of very smart people are looking at that and they’re betting. You just have to look at what’s going on with the stock market. In order to protect our great American workers, I’ve just signed an executive order temporarily suspending immigration into the United States. This will ensure that unemployed Americans of all backgrounds will be first in line for jobs as our economy reopens. Crucially, it will also preserve our healthcare resources for American patients. We have to take care of our patients, we have to take care of our great American workers, and that’s what we’re doing. So I’ve just signed it, just before coming into the room. And very important, very important. And as to amending it or extending it, that we can do at the appropriate time. But it’s now signed. Earlier today, the First Lady and I planted a tree on the South Lawn of the White House in recognition of the 50th annual Earth Day. I was glad to announce that we will begin to reopen our national parks and public lands. We want Americans to be able to satisfy and be really safe. We want them to satisfy their family that safety is going to happen. And it will happen, and maybe even at a level like never before. We’ve learned so much. But we want them to enjoy these great national treasures as we continue to take reasonable precautions. And hopefully, it’ll be just reasonable. My administration has directed more than $7 billion in federal funding to support the development of treatments, diagnostics, and therapies. And that’s something, Doctors, I hope you can really work on. It’s something so powerful and so important. The FDA, the NIH, and industry leaders are establishing master clinical trial protocols to test multiple promising new drugs at the same time. And they’re doing a lot of — we’re doing a lot of testing right now. More than 1,600 locations across the country have signed up to administer convalescent plasma to patients, infusing them with antibodies of those who have recovered. And when they recover — I said it last time — practically, the first thing they say is, “I want to give my blood so that I can help other people.” They want to give their blood. It’s incredible. They’re laying in bed, they’re still in pretty weakened conditions, and they say, “I want to give my blood.” And that’s happening all the time, isn’t it? If you recovered from the coronavirus, I ask you to consider contacting your local blood or plasma donation center to arrange a donation that could potentially save many lives. With love for our nation and loyalty for our fellow citizens, we will safeguard our families, care for our neighbors, heal the sick, protect our workers, and build a future for a country that is the greatest country anywhere in the world. And we’re only going to get greater. Thank you very much. Mike Pence, please. Great. Okay. Go ahead, please. Well, we could talk about that later. It’s an executive order on immigration. We want Americans to have the jobs. We want Americans to have the healthcare. We want to take care of our citizens first. We have to. And it’s a very powerful order. It’s for 60 days. At the end of 60 days, or maybe even during 60 days, I’ll extend it or not. And I’ll maybe change it. I might modify it. Yes. Yeah, go ahead, please. We’re talking about immigrants that are trying to get in, and we’re talking about people and — also, by the way, people that are coming in illegally. Now, as you know, because you’ve seen the numbers, our border — our southern border — is very, very tight. It hasn’t been this tight in years. It’s being helped by 160 — more than that — miles of wall that are going up. I’m trying to get to 450 by the end of the year — 450 miles. And we’ll have 530 miles early next year, and that’s really great. It’s fully funded. We have all the funds. And the Army Corps of Engineers is doing a fantastic job. Same people that did Javits Center, as you know. They’re doing a fantastic job. So our — our southern border is very, very tight, for good reason — for very good reason. We’re also being helped by 27,000 very good soldiers from Mexico, and I want to thank the President of Mexico. He’s been terrific in many ways, including on what we’re doing with COVID. And, as you know, we have a very good trade arrangement with Mexico now, which we didn’t have before. So I want to thank the President of Mexico, in particular for the 27,000 soldiers. They’re doing — they’re doing a fantastic job. Yeah, we want to protect our healthcare workers, and that’s one of the other reasons we’re doing this. Yes, Jon. I — I’ve never heard of him. You just mentioned the name. I never heard of him. When did this happen? Well, I’ve never heard of him. If the guy says he was pushed out of a job, maybe he was, maybe he wasn’t. I — you’d have to hear the other side. I don’t know who he is. Please. Hold on one second, please. Hope so. Well, we’re going to probably have 25 percent of what we had last year. Last year, as you know, it was maxed out — maxed out. I saw a magnificent picture of Dr. Martin Luther King and I saw a magnificent picture of our event last year, and both of them were maxed out. It was beautiful to see. Beautiful. Very similar. This year, most likely, we’ll be standing six feet apart. We’ll have to do that in a very, very interesting way. And maybe we’ll even do it greater, so we’ll leave a little extra distance. But if we do that, we’d certainly do that. I — I don’t see, maybe, the purpose if we can’t do that. We have to have people. Thousands — we had tens of thousands — most of you were there — tens of thousands of people last year. It was incredible. And it was, to an extent, an air show of all the different aircraft flying over. We even had Air Force One flying over. So ideally, it would be wonderful if we could actually have it as it was last year. But — and, eventually, we’ll — we will have that. I think it’s important to know: Eventually, we are going to have that. Your stadiums are going to be the way — — they’ve been for the last hundred years. No, I know. But your stadiums — as an example, sports — are going to be the way they used to be. I mean, I told one of the owners. He said, “Do you think I should take out seats?” I said, “No, you shouldn’t take out seats.” We’re going to have it the way it was. We’re going to be back. This virus will eventually be gone. And if it should show up in the fall, we’re going to put it out very fast. We have great people. We’re going to put it out very fast, because we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot about how to deal with this, and we’ll put it out very fast. Yeah, please. Nice — just nice and easy. Just — good. Yeah. Well, I am doing that. And — and let me just say, we are the king of testing already. There’s no country in the world that’s done more. Not even — not even close. I just said there’s no country in the world that’s done more. And we have tests that have already come out that are going to be introduced very shortly that will do it more. My problem is this: It’s a — it’s very much of media trap. Whether we did 2 percent, 5 percent, 50 percent, or 100 percent, it’ll never be enough, no matter what. Now, with the — with the expertise and with what we did — because of our expertise and tremendous talent at manufacturing — what we did with the ventilators, that wasn’t a trap. Because we got them done, shockingly to everybody, because of the incredible talent — like Mike Pence saw yesterday in Wisconsin. But we have numerous of those sites all over the country doing the same thing. So that when the governors were complaining — some of the governors, I must say. And it was very much along party lines, for the most part, but when they — except for one. When the governors were complaining, we said, “No, no. How many do you need?” “We need 50.” “We need 100.” One governor asked for many, many, many thousands, and it turned out they didn’t need that, and that’s good. We got them and nobody that needed a ventilator — you know this, and we went through this with the governors — that needed a ventilator didn’t get a ventilator. That was an incredible achievement. With testing, it’s a little different. It’s much easier than ventilators. It’s like 2 percent. But — for instance, the swabs are coming in by the millions. They’re coming in — literally coming in by the millions. Totally ordered. We wanted the highest quality. We could have gotten a much lesser quality. We didn’t want to do that. We got the highest quality. But, testing — it’s like no matter how well you do, you can always say more. With the ventilators, they either have them or they don’t. In fact, we went to one meeting — “Who wants a ventilator?” One governor — one governor said, “We’d like 25.” “Twenty-five. You got them. Who else?” Nobody spoke up. That was four weeks ago. So that was great. The problem with the testing is, as I said, if we test — if we tested 350 million people, you’ll say, “Well, we want them to have a second test or a third test or a fourth test.” Not everybody believes as strongly as some people in testing. Some people want to do testing because they think it’s impossible for us to fulfill that goal. That’s easy compared to ventilators, as I’ve said. But we have a tremendous testing capability — better than anybody in the world right now. And every day, it’s growing. And it’s growing very substantial. I mean, these doctors are very talented people. They’ve seen testing all their lives. They’ve never seen anything like we’ve been able to do. So, we’re going to give everybody what they want with the testing. But again, testing — and I’ve said it from the beginning: The actual test has to be administered locally. You can’t do from Washington or faraway locations — federal testing — nearly as well as you can, where you have a governor, he has mayors, and they have representatives, and — and they know the back of a Walmart — put it in the parking lot in the back of a Walmart or put it in a certain location in different states. They’re doing it beautifully. It’s working beautifully. The relationship I have with the governors, and Mike has, and we all have with the governors, I would say, other than one or two — but even them, they don’t complain. They’re not complaining. So we’re doing tremendous testing. And ultimately, we’re doing more testing, I think, than probably any of the governors even want. Okay. Please, Jennifer. It’s green cards for — subject — It’s subject to change. We have some people coming in, for instance, helping the farmers. We want to have the farmers take care — they’ve been coming for years and years, and they’re helping our farmers, and they’ve — they’ve been coming in for years. We don’t want to do — you know, the border has been turned off a number of times over the years. And you know what happened? Our farmers all went out of business. They were out of business. They couldn’t farm. We’re taking care of our farmers. Nobody ever took care of farmers like I take care of farmers. Including the $19 billion that we’re dispersing to farmers because of some very good things that happened. No, no. Just it might be modified. It could be modified next week, in two weeks. It could be modified in two months. No, we may modify it as we go along. But right now, we have a very powerful immigration ban, but it could be modified — meaning made tougher or made less tough. We don’t want to hurt our businesses, and we don’t want to hurt our farmers. Very important. Look, I’d like them to listen to their governors. All of their governors. I have the right to do, if I wanted to clamp it down, but I have respect for our governors. They know what they’re doing, I think. And, as you know, Brian Kemp, governor of Georgia, I worked very hard for his election. He beat their superstar. He beat the superstar of their party. I think you can say, I helped a lot. Michelle Obama, Barack Obama, Oprah Winfrey — they all went in. They campaigned for him very, very hard, and he lost. He also was way down in a primary, and he ended up winning a primary after I came out and endorsed him. So, a lot of good things and there’s a lot of good feeling between myself and Brian Kemp. I like him a lot. I happen to disagree with him only on time and timing. I disagree. When you have spas, beauty parlors — and I love these people — I know the people from spas and beauty parlors, tattoo parlors. Bikers for Trump — a lot of tattoos. I love them. I love these people. And barbershops. These are great people. But you know what? Maybe you wait a little bit longer until you get into a phase two. So do I agree with him? No. But I respect him, and I will let him make his decision. Would I do that? No. I’d keep them a little longer. I want to protect people’s lives. But I’m going to let him make his decision. But I told him: I totally disagree. Okay. Yeah. Well, we’re doing that automatically. I mean, that’s almost common sense. But we’re doing that automat- — I mean, you look at the State of Washington. That was our first glimpse of it. They got hit so horribly in that nursing home. It seems — it seemed like everybody was from a particular nursing home. So we knew immediately that was going to be a problem. And we’re doing that, 100 percent. We’re taking very special care of our nursing homes and our seniors, other than me. Other than me. Nobody wants to take care of me. But other than me, we’re taking care of our seniors. Yeah, please, Mike. Go ahead. How about right behind Jennifer? Go ahead. We’ll get back — we’ll get back to you. Very easy. They can get new machines if they want, but even if they didn’t, we have tremendous testing capability. You take a look at what’s happening in California and New York. Governor Cuomo told us very strongly — he said, “Wow, we have a lot of labs.” You know, that’s a research center of the world. They have tremendous — in California, too. Long conversations. They have tremendous testing capability there too. Now, if they want to increase it, they can increase it, but they have plenty right now. You saw the maps the other day, when we put up the different sites in various states, and virtually all states are like that. How about you with the mask? Nice that you wear a mask. Who did the maps? Do you — do you want do that? Do you want to say something? But without building new, they have tremendous capability. And — And many of the governors were not aware that those laboratories were available. Jon, you didn’t know that was in the guidelines? No, but it’s right — but it’s right in the guidelines. I’m surprised at you. Jerome, would you like to say something on that, please? Please. Thank you, Jerome. Thank you. And I have to say our Surgeon General is doing a great job. Thank you. Great job. Really good. OAN, in the back, please. No. We’re covered — we’re covered 100 percent. We don’t want their gunboats surrounding our boats and traveling around our boats and having a good time. We don’t want them anywhere near our boats. And — so you know the order I gave. I don’t think I have to say it again, but I’ve given that order. Under the Obama administration, it was taking place all the time. Under my administration, I gave this order early on and nothing happened. They were very nice; they were no problem. But then I noticed yesterday, they did that in a much lighter form, but they did that again. I said, “We’re not going to — we’re not going to stand for it.” So if they do that, that’s putting our ships at danger and our great crews and sailors at — in danger. I’m not going to let that happen. And we will — they’ll shoot them out of the water. No, that’s not rules of engagement; that’s a threat when they get that close to our boat. And they have guns. They have very substantial weapons on those boats. But we’ll shoot them out of the water. Okay? Please. Pets. What about the lion in the New York Zoo? How did that — how did that happen? Yes. He did what? What? That, I don’t know. But I — you’re just telling me something. And what’s the second? No problem with face masks, if the governors want to do that. You know, we ordered — I don’t know if you know — 500 million face masks. We have hundreds of millions right now. And if people want to wear them, it’s up to the governors. If the governors want that, it’s absolutely — now, it’s more appropriate in some states, obviously, than others. You have the big plains and you have certain states where it’s much less necessary. But, no, that’s up to the governors. And we have that very well covered, I think, face masks. But we have — We have hundreds of millions of face masks, and we have at least 500 million. That’s a lot. We’ll have them very shortly. Well, I don’t know. Would anybody like to speak about it? I don’t — I think, if — for — as — just so you understand, if somebody wants to wear them, I’m all for it. Would somebody like to discuss that? Jerome, please. Yeah, but I’m right next to you, so. No, I think it’s . He’s answered that question. Just a wise-guy question, that’s all. Please, go ahead. You mean the shot they took? Well, they say no. Okay? They say all sorts. “It was for television”. Does anybody really believe that? They want to have better television in Iran, so they say. No, we’re watching Iran very closely. Very closely. We know more about Iran than they do. Right now, we know more than they do. So we know all about it. We watched it; we knew it was going up. We followed it very closely. They say it was for television. Yes, please. Go ahead. Finish up there, please. See what? What is vulnerable? Her, I read where various navies have had outbreaks of COVID. Look, we’re in 184 different — different nations right now. A hundred and eight-four — the COVID. No, we have a problem on — that just shows you how rapidly it spreads. It started off with two sailors and then 10 sailors and 20, and now I hear it’s 540, of which one has died and a few are very sick. But most of them are back in — you know, in great shape. But we did — we did lose one, and it attacked the lungs of that young person. And then we also had a number of that were quite sick, but they’re all either better or getting better. But most of them are better for a long time already. Okay, please. Yeah, just one second. Yeah. Yeah. Look at South Dakota, how well the governor is — yeah, look at South Dakota, how well the governor has done there. And, all of a sudden, you have a big spike in one location. And she’s got that very much under control, as you know. But nevertheless, that was surprising. And they had a big one right near where you were yesterday, as I understand it. And — so yeah, we’re concerned about that. They’re closing one or two of the plants, actually. Yeah, totally secure. It’s in great shape. Yeah, in the back. You didn’t go. Against China. Yeah. Well, I haven’t seen the case. I know about the case. He filed a case against China. I love Missouri, as you know. It’s great. But I’m going to take a look at it. I actually know about it very much. I have to take a look at it. I have not seen the case, in terms of reading it, but I will be doing that. Well, we’re going to have to take a look. Oh, we’re doing investigations. We’re doing our own. But I do want to see and review that lawsuit. I’m sure that won’t be the last one. Yeah. Yeah, sure. And why did you say that he has great gifts or gifts? What, do you know him? No, no, but have you reviewed him? Have you — have you studied him? Have you reported on him? You said, “his gifts.” His gifts. I mean — Well, that doesn’t mean you have gifts. I know a lot of people, they play baseball, but they can’t hit 150 in the Major Leagues. No, no, but you talk about his great gifts. Go ahead, please. Please, go ahead. You can go. Please. From where? From where? And they didn’t want to say what? What does that mean? Tell me. What does it mean? Repeat it. Say it a little differently. Oh, really? That’s interest- — is he a Democrat? Well, check it. How can you ask that questions without knowing? Check it out. You’ll find out. Okay, what’s the next question? How would he know what I felt? I never spoke to him. I don’t even know who he is. You don’t know who he is either. Okay, it doesn’t help me, and it doesn’t help you. Okay, go ahead, Jeff. Do we want to keep going a little while longer or no? You’re not going to say, “Oh, he took questions all night long”? Okay? Right? Okay, well, good. How many questions can you ask? Go ahead. We — we all have fun, because we’re talking about something very important. The main thing is I think we’re getting to a lot of solutions. We never want this to happen again. We never want this to happen again — what happened. And if it should come back in some form, we want to snuff it out very quickly before anything can happen. And I personally hope it doesn’t come back in the fall as a combination of the flu or not as a combination of the flu. But I think we learned a lot. And, you know, some of these questions are good. Some of them are ridiculous, frankly, but some of them are very — I think some of them are very important questions. Very important. You know, when you asked Dr. Fauci about the right to speak — if I let him speak, I’ll let anybody speak. And we love him. Let’s go. I — I heard he said that. I don’t know — I don’t know what he said. I’ll have to call him and ask him. Well, that’s okay. I’m going to have to look at it directly. I can’t tell you that. I have to see — I want to base it on fact and reason. I want to see what he said — you know, why he said it and how he said it. I’d have to watch him say it. But some of the states are not doing well, let’s face it. And some are doing phenomenally well. A state where Mike was governor, Indiana — I looked at their numbers. They have — it’s incredible what they’re doing. Some states are doing fantastically well. Iowa is doing great. You have — you have states doing well, and you have some states that aren’t doing well. We know the ones. I don’t have to mention the ones that aren’t doing well, but you do have states that are in trouble. And certainly they’re coming back to talk to us. We’ll see what happens. Well, we have a choice. Do we have a choice? Yeah. I’m always concerned about everything. We had to fix this problem. This was — we were attacked. This was an attack. This wasn’t just, “Oh, gee.” And this wasn’t the flu, by the way. You know, they like to say the flu. Nobody has ever seen anything like this. 1917 was the last time. We were attacked. We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. We had the greatest economy — better than China, better than any place. They will tell you that. I dealt with them for a long time, and they will tell — we have the greatest economy and we built it in the last three years, three and a half years we built it. And then one day, they came and they said, “You have to close it.” I said, “You got to be…” “These people right here, they said you have to…” They came into my office — into the Oval Office, and they said, “We have to close the economy.” I said, “Let’s explain this. Explain this to me.” The greatest ever in history and we had to close it. Now we’re going to open it again, and we’re going to be just as strong or stronger. But you have to spend some money to get it back open. We saved our airlines. We just, as you know, finished up with the airlines. We saved numerous companies — that are great companies — that, two months ago, were having the best year they’ve ever had. Now, all of a sudden, they’re totally shut out of markets. There was a great spirit today. You know, the fact is some of the governors are opening up their states. And I saw it. I feel it. I don’t know if you folks feel it. I feel it. There was a great spirit today. I don’t know, the stock market was up today, I guess. It was up quite a bit when I just walked out here. And I will say I feel much different today than I did two or three days ago, and I think the world does. We spoke to a lot of leaders. The world feels that we’re really leading a path of optimism. The European Union is having a lot of difficulty. You know, you take a look at what’s going on with the European Union; it’s having tremendous difficulty. But we’re going to be back, and we’re going to be back stronger than ever. We’re going to be at a level, I think, that everybody is going to be look — and they do; they look up to us. They want to know what are we doing. What are we doing with therapeutics? What are we doing with vaccines? We’re going to have those answers too. We’re going to have them, just like we took care of ventilators, just like we’re taking care of — and, already, as we said 100 times, we had more testing than any nation in the world. We had more testing than all of those nations put together that we mentioned the other day — all of them put together. And we’re going to be, within two weeks, at a level that nobody has ever even seen before. They’ve never seen where we are right now. You don’t have to build new machines. You don’t have to build new labs; we already have them. But some of the labs are even upgrading to be able to double and triple their capacity, in one case. No, we’re at a level that nobody has ever been. We’re going to be bigger, better, and stronger than ever before. So I’m not concerned about that. Thank you very much. Hi, Mike. Hi. David, hi. Please, thank you. Everyone is very far away from each other. That’s good. We’re learning, right? Hi, Kevin. That’s really nice. Well, this is great to be here. And we’re doing something I love doing: planting trees. I’ve always loved it. And we get great trees. The First Lady and I are very grateful to be here on the South Lawn of the White House as we celebrate the 50th annual Earth Day, National Park Week, and the upcoming Arbor Day. And that’s going to be — tell me, David? That’s right. Friday. Thank you. As more than 180 nations around the world battle the vicious coronavirus, we continue to mourn the precious souls who have been lost — so sadly lost and so unnecessarily lost. It should’ve been stopped, and it should’ve been stopped right where it started. And everyone knows where it started. But in this time of trial, the beauty of springtime fills us with the peace and the hope of renewal. We’re pleased to be joined by our great Vice President Mike Pence. Please, Mike, stand up. You have done such a great job on getting us open again. We’re opening again, Mike. It’s starting to move. A lot of states are in great shape and they’re starting to move it along. And very importantly, Karen Pence, who has been so fantastic and done such a great job representing the country. Thank you, Karen. Beautiful job. Also here are Secretaries David Bernhardt; Sonny Perdue; Administrator Wheeler — Andrew Wheeler, thank you; and Leader Kevin McCarthy. And what a job he has done. And good vote the other day, yesterday. That was good. How’s that — no, but previous to that. And when are you voting on the — Thursday? Good. Is there — is that a guarantee or — there’s no guarantee. There’s never a guarantee when you’re dealing with people, right? But anyway — but it’s in good shape, right? Yeah. Thank you, Kevin, very much. On this special occasion, we are renewing our strong national commitment on conserving the wonder of God’s creation. One of the most important ways we uphold this tradition is by protecting our priceless national parks and our public lands. To support our all-out war against the virus, many of the places that we have here were temporarily closing. But we will — we will have them open quickly. As we said, we’re starting to open our country again. Thanks to our significant progress against the invisible enemy, I am pleased to announce that, in line with my administration’s Guidelines for Opening Up America Again, we will begin to reopen our national parks and public lands for the American people to enjoy. So what is that? Now tell us about that, David. Right, roll out. Good. When will they start? That’s great. Okay. That’s going to be very exciting. That’s going to be very exciting. You have a lot of land to open up too, don’t you, huh? People are going to be very happy. On this Earth Day, we celebrate that America leads the world in environmental stewardship, which is so, so true. I see it. I see the love and devotion that so many people, like — David, like you give — and that we continue to have among the cleanest air and cleanest water anywhere on the planet Earth. We’re also honoring our country’s heritage of conservation, including through the support of One Trillion Trees — and that’s the One Trillion Tree Initiative, which is a very big deal. We’ll be planting, over a period of time, one trillion trees. That’s a lot of trees, Kevin. How do we do that, huh? Do you have any ideas? That’s great. That’s great. That’s going to be exciting. As a sign of our dedication, in a few moments, the First Lady and I will plant a maple tree right here on the South Lawn of the White House. Wherever the tree is — where is this tree now? That’s a beautiful straight trunk. That’s a triple-A tree. That’s great. As our nation grows stronger and greater in the months and years to come — and we will. We will be bigger, better, stronger than ever before. You watch what’s happening. You see it happening already. There’s such spirit with the concept of the states starting to open. Such incredible spirit. This tree will grow also and it will stand tall and beautiful. And the future generations will be looking at it, and they’ll say, “I wonder who planted that tree.” And we’ll say it was Kevin and David and Mike and Karen and a whole group of people. And we really appreciate it. But they’ll be admiring this tree and they’ll be admiring nine more trees. We’re planting 10 beautiful specimen trees. They’re specimens — all specimens. People may think that’s an exaggeration or that’s a Trump term; actually, they’re sold as specimens. And they cost more money, but they are better. I buy a lot of them. And now I’d like to invite the Vice President up and Karen to say a few words, please. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you very much. Kevin, would you come up and say a few words? And why don’t you stay right there, Mike? Perfect. Thank you, Kevin. That’s beautiful. Thank you. He gave a lot of facts that a lot of people didn’t know, including me. I thought that — I just spoke with our great First Lady, and she said, “You know, it’d be wonderful for Karen Pence to say a few words. People have no idea the incredible job Karen Pence does representing this nation. Everybody loves her. She’s special in every way. And, Karen, I’d like to have you say a few words, please. You — she didn’t know this, but I’d like — . That was very nice. Thank you, Karen. Wow. That was beautiful. So, Mike, let’s go over and do it. Okay? We’re ready? Well, thank you very much everyone. We had a very big day today. I want to start by saying that our love and prayers of every American continue to be with our fellow citizens who have lost a cherished friend or a family member to the virus. Amidst our grief, we’re making tremendous strides against this invisible enemy. Thanks to our aggressive campaign against the virus and the extraordinary talent of our medical professionals, our mortality rate remains roughly half of that of many other countries and one of the lowest of any country in the world. And that’s due to a lot of — a lot of things, but our medical professionals have been incredible. Since we announced our “Guidelines on Opening Up America,” as we call it — we say “Opening up America,” and we add the word agun [sic]. I think we can add the word, probably, “again.” But that’s what it is: We’re opening up America again. Twenty states representing 40 percent of the U.S. population have announced that they are making plans and preparations to safely restart their economies in the very near future. So that’s 20 states; that’s about 40 percent of our country. They’re moving along pretty quickly. Three announced today, as you know, and they’re going to be doing it safely. They’re going to be doing it with tremendous passion. There’s — they want to get back to work. The country wants to get back to work. A short time ago, the Senate passed the Paycheck Protection Program and Healthcare Enhancement Act, with additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program, hospitals, and testing. A lot of money for all of them, especially for our workers and our small businesses. My administration has worked aggressively with Congress to negotiate this critical 482-billion-dollar funding package. We reached a deal that includes $382 billion in crucial small-business support to keep workers on the payroll; $75 billion to aid hospitals, which really need the aid, and very badly — I’m very proud of that; and $25 billion to support coronavirus testing efforts. I urge the House to pass the bill, and they’re going to be voting on it, I imagine, very — very soon. I think while we’re here, and so he’s a very busy man, as you know — Secretary Mnuchin — he’s going to be running back, so I thought we’d do — we’ll talk about that now, and we’ll take a couple of questions on that. And then he can go and start phase four, as the ink is drying. Probably, they’ll be voting tomorrow in the House, but shortly. Shortly. And I think we have tremendous support. So, Steve, please come up. Say a few words. Steve? Yeah. And not for Harvard, you might say, Steve. I’m going to request. I’m going to request. Yep. Harvard is going to pay back the money. And they shouldn’t be taking it. So, Harvard is going to. You have a number of them. I’m not going to mention any other names. But when I saw Harvard, they have a — one of the largest endowments anywhere in the country, maybe in the world, I guess. And they’re going to pay back that money. They shouldn’t have taken it. One more. Jon. That was a very nice question. Very good. Thank you, Steve. See you later. That was a nice question, actually. It’s a good question, too. So the noble fight against the invisible enemy has inflicted a steep toll on the American workforce. As we all know, millions of Americans sacrificed their jobs in order to battle the virus and save the lives of our fellow citizens. We have a solemn duty to ensure these unemployed Americans regain their jobs and their livelihoods. Therefore, in order to protect American workers, I will be issuing a temporary suspension of immigration into the United States; you heard about that last night. By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. So important. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labor flown in from abroad. We must first take care of the American worker — take care of the American worker. This pause will be in effect for 60 days, after which the need for any extension or modification will be evaluated by myself and a group of people, based on economic conditions at the time. This order will only apply to individuals seeking a permanent residency. In other words, those receiving green cards — a big factor — it will not apply to those entering on a temporary basis. As we move forward, we’ll examine what additional immigration-related measures should be put in place to protect U.S. workers. We want to protect our U.S. workers. And I think, as we move forward, we will become more and more protective of them. This pause on new immigration will also help to conserve vital medical resources for American citizens. A short break from new immigration, depending on the time we’re talking about, will protect the solvency of our healthcare system and provide relief to jobless Americans. Today, Vice President Pence visited the hardworking men and women of General Electric Healthcare in Madison, Wisconsin, who are working three shifts a day to quadruple their production of ventilators. We’re way ahead of schedule on ventilators, as you know. That’s why it’s never brought up by the media. They don’t like to bring things up when we’re doing so well. GE is also working with Ford to make 50,000 ventilators in the next 100 days — more than our entire country typically produces in a very long period of time. Doing that in a matter of a few weeks and a few days. Earlier today, I had a very productive meeting with Governor Cuomo, as you probably saw, to discuss his statewide testing strategy and how we can work together to help expand it, with the goal of doubling testing in the next few weeks. And New York State will be continuing to control the testing of their citizens and will also manage the state and local laboratories. They have a lot of great laboratories there — more than anybody would ever have known, frankly. The federal government will work along with the state on the national manufacturers and distributors. Together, we’ll all work together to help them secure additional tests, and we hope that this model will work with the other states as well. I think it will, for the most part. New York has a lot of very exceptional laboratories, but most of the states do. It’s — you saw the chart yesterday. Most of the states do. I’m proud of the relationship my administration has forged with New York and, I can say very honestly, with New York State and New York City. They’ve been terrific to work with. The New York metropolitan area has been the epicenter of the outbreak here in America, and the federal government has spared no expense or resource to get New Yorkers the care they need and the care they deserve. We’ve sent over 5 million masks. We had 5 million masks. And now that number, as of about two days from now, will be more than doubled. Thousands of ventilators — in fact, so many ventilators that the governor is going to be sending up some to — to Massachusetts and a couple of other locations. We have a great deal of ventilators, which people thought would be impossible about a month ago. Thousands of hospital beds and the USNS Comfort was sent, as you know, to New York. And it was originally for more of a normal medical purpose, and we changed it over so that it could take care of people that had the unfortunate circumstance of going through the problem that we — that we know so well; unfortunately, that we know so well. I said from the beginning that no American who needs a ventilator would be denied a ventilator and we have kept that promise all over the United States. Think of that. Other countries are desperate for ventilators. They have many deaths because they don’t have a ventilator. And I’ve asked Andrew if we could bring the Comfort back to its base in Virginia so that we can have it for other locations, and he said we would be able to do that. Javits Center has been a great help to them, but we’ll be bringing the ship back at the earliest time. And we’ll get it ready for its next mission, which will, I’m sure, be a very important one also. But it was — it was an honor. They — they reconverted it after it got there into handling an event that they were not expecting to be handling. The FDA has now authorized more than 50 diagnostic tests, including, as of late last night, the first test — test that a patient can take home. You can take it at home and it’s highly accurate. LabCorp intends to make the home collection kits available to consumers in most states with a doctor’s order in the coming weeks. We also have four different antibody tests already authorized. Tests will help identify individuals who can donate convalescent plasma, thus providing potentially lifesaving antibodies to American patients. Dr. Hahn will be providing you with an update on these developments in a few moments. He’s done a great job at the FDA. We continue to gain ground in the war against the unseen enemy and I see light at the end of the tunnel. I actually see a lot of light at the end of the tunnel. And we’re starting the process. We’re starting a very, very powerful, important process. You see that people are getting very anxious. They want to get going. They want to get back to their jobs. They want to make money. They want to take care of their families. So, the light is getting brighter and brighter every day. And, with that, if I could, I’ll ask Dr. Birx to come up and then Dr. Hahn. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Doctor, please. Thank you very much. Please, go ahead. And all of these tests, I want to say, are in addition to the test that we already have. And we have tested more people than anybody anywhere in the world, by far — by very far. Bret, do you have a question? No, we didn’t discuss it, and I don’t know of the report. Obviously, there have been some very good reports and perhaps this one is not a good report. But we’ll be looking at it. We’ll have a comment on it as soon — Okay. Well, we’ll take a look at that. I’m always willing to take a look. Bret? The executive order will be — it’s being written now, as we speak. Probably tomorrow sometime. We’ll have certain exemptions, because you’re going to need certain exemptions. But we’ll be notifying you tomorrow. We’ll sign it, most likely, tomorrow. Being drawn now and tonight. And it’s something we have to have in this country. We have to have it. Well, I think it really does, I think it’s very strong, obviously. And it’s countrywide, as opposed to specifically, like China or some of the other ones that I’ve shut down. We’re going to see. And you’ll see a very accurate definition tomorrow after it’s completed by the attorneys. Well, these are reports that came out, and we don’t know. We don’t know. I’ve had a very good relationship with him. I wouldn’t — you know, I can only say this: I wish him well. Because if he is in the kind of condition that the reports say, that the news is saying, that would be a — that’s a very serious condition, as you know. But I wish him well. We’ve had a good relationship. I’ve said it — I’ve said it many times: If somebody else were in this position, we would have been right now at war with North Korea. And we’re not at war, and we’re nowhere close to war with North Korea. So I just have to say to Kim Jong Un, I wish him very — you know, good luck. Good luck. I mean, they came out with very, very serious medical reports. Nobody has confirmed that. It’s — it was CNN that came out. So when CNN comes out with a report, I don’t place too much credence in it. Yeah, we had a great talk on testing. And we have an agreement — we have an understanding on testing. They have labs — tremendous labs, as you know — in New York, especially in the Manhattan area, but all over the state, and great, great medical schools and federal labs. So we have a very good understanding. We’re going to do very significant testing. You know, not everybody wants to do such significant testing. Testing is good in some cases and, in some cases, it’s not. You have governors that don’t want to go all out on the testing because they think they can do it in a different manner and do it better. But we had a very good meeting today. The governor and I had a very good meeting. Yeah, well, we have — we have $25 billion. And that’s a tremendous amount of money. That’s far more money than, in my opinion, than we’ll need. And again, already we’re testing more, by far, than any country. I think I read yesterday a report that we’ve done more than everybody else, every other country combined. And I think our people should be getting a lot of credit for that. We’ve done a lot — more than everybody else combined — and you never hear that in the news. It’s, you know, unfortunate. Yeah, please. Well, it is green cards. But we’re going to be reporting on that later on. It might be tonight or tomorrow. We’ll give you an exact report. No, I think it’s been covered pretty accurately, in this case. I think most people know what it is. And some people will be able to get in. We have to do that, obviously, even from a humane standpoint. But there’ll be — there’ll be some people coming in. But it’s a — it’s a strong order. It’s a strong order. It involves a big, big circle, as you know. Please. I don’t think that. Well, I don’t think so. They’re not supposed to be here. You’re saying they’re here illegally? Is that what you’re saying? Well, if a court order, then you have to go to court. So then the judge would make a determination as to whether or not they’re going to be staying. But if they have a court order, they won’t have to leave until they go through that process. So we’ll see what happens. But with the court — and there are some with court orders. That means they have a trial coming up. Please. Well, we’re going to — yeah. Well, I think — look, right now, obviously there’s never been — we had the greatest economy in the world and then, one day, we had to shut it down. They said, “You have to shut it down.” We did the right thing, because I think we would have had a million or maybe even 2 million — and maybe more than that — deaths. So we did the right thing. But certainly, this would pertain. I mean, when you look at it, right now the last thing we want to do is take American workers’ jobs. It’s one thing when we were at essentially — they used to call it “full employment.” And it’s another thing right now. Right now, we have people that have lost their jobs and we hope they’re going to come back and come back fast, and then we can have an even deeper discussion. But, right now, we have to have jobs for Americans. Well, we’ll have to see. I mean, I hope we’re in that position to have that debate. Right now, we’re not in that position. Right now, we closed down a — the largest economy, the greatest economy in the history of the world. It’s the most successful economy. When you look at the stock market, we were breaking records virtually every week, sometimes every day. And the stock market is still not doing badly, considering what this country has been through, which really tells you how strong it was in the first place. But, no, I hope we’re going to be able to have that discussion. I hope we’re in a position — that’s like a good discussion to have. But that’ll be a little bit later. Bret. So he’s a very capable man. He knows what he’s doing. He’s done a very good job as governor — Georgia. And — and, by the way, and South Carolina. Governor McMaster also. So you have two very capable people. We’re going to find out. And, in fact, I’m scheduled to speak to the governor of Georgia in a little while. But we’ll — we’ll find out. Well, everybody — I have a concern about what happens everywhere. I mean, we’ve got those concerns. And as far as coming back, if they do come back — and they could come back together with heavy on the flu and much lighter on — because I really believe we’ll be able to put out the fires. You know, it’s like fires. And we’ve learned a lot. You know, we’ve become very good at this, when you look at what’s happening, when you look at the numbers coming down. A lot of states are in really great shape. You’re going to see a lot of openings. But I’ll be speaking to the governor of Georgia in a little while. Okay? Well, I could see them — and I’ll speak for the doctor, and, if you’d like, either of you, to say — but I would say that you keep away until this thing is gone. It’s going to be gone at some point. It’s going to be gone, gone. And I would say you keep away and you do the social distancing until such time as you know it’s gone. We’ll know when that time is. Well, I’ll look at the economy. We’ll see where we are with the economy, basically. And I think I’ll have a very easy decision to make. I hope — I hope that the economy is going to be great by that time, but we’ll see. But, right now, in light of the fact that Americans are out of jobs, I can’t be hav- — I can’t be taking in. Well, I could, or I could roll it for 30 days, or I could roll it for much more than 60 days. We’ll have to take a look at the time. But we’ll be looking at 60 days and we’ll see what it is. Yeah, in the back. Please. Yeah, that’s all right. You go. Why don’t you go and then you. Okay? It could happen if I want. But I won’t be doing it tomorrow. I’ll be signing the primary order. And then we have a secondary order that, if I want to do that, we’ll make that determination. We can do that. Yeah, we can do that at a little bit different time if we want. Yeah, sure. Sure. Secondary orders, yeah. Please. You always that: one from him and one from her. That’s okay. Good. That’s good. Fine. I campaigned on legal and illegal. But, no, I’ve always said you have to come into the country legally. So, not legal. What I campaigned on was people just flooding our border and stopping. And, by the way, speaking of that, we have 170 miles — almost 170 miles of — of very powerful border wall up, and it’s moving rapidly, very quickly, and it’s having a tremendous impact. And it’s making our job a lot easier. Plus, Mexico has 27,000 soldiers right now on our southern border that we share with them. And Mexico has been terrific. They’ve really helped. No, I’m not doing that. No, no. Well, I want people that are in this country — I want our citizens to get jobs. I don’t want them to have competition. We have a very unusual situation where something came in that nobody has seen for many, many decades. Probably 1917 would be the closest analogy, if you look at it — when you look at the contagion, the kind of contagion we’re talking about. So, no, I’m not — I’m not doing that at all. I want — I want the American worker and the American — our American citizens to be able to get jobs. I don’t want them to compete right now. There’s a big difference when we have a full economy, and frankly, where some of the companies — we have many companies moving in, where they need actually — they need workers. That’s a big difference between that and where, all of a sudden, a lot of people lose jobs. Yeah, that’s not going to be affected. The farmers will not be — That’s an important point. The farmers will not be affected. Yeah, that’s a very important point. I mean, it’s a great point, actually. I’m — I’m glad you brought it up. No, the farmers will not be affected. You know, they’ve had cases where they — where they stopped everybody from coming in, and all the farmers went out of business. They were literally out of business. You remember that, Bret. It was not so long ago. But they — it’s easy — you know, it’s easier to stop everything cold than it is to plan it so that the farmers have the people that have been working on those farms for many years. And — and that’s what we’re doing. No, the farmers will not be affected by this at all. If anything, we’re going to make it easier, and we’re doing a process that’ll make it better for those workers to come in, to go to the farm where they’ve been for a long time. Well, I can’t tell you that. The CDC has been terrific. We’ve worked with them very closely. They were very much involved, even in the border decision that I made last night. And the director is — — the director is doing a good job. And we have always — whether it’s Tony or Deborah or Steve — we have always a lot of people up. And certainly, as you’ve seen, the director has been here a lot. Right? He’s been here, he’s been sitting here. He’s been speaking a lot. No, no, CDC is very much involved in everything we’ve done. Yeah, please. Well, people — look, it’s not a question of helpful or not. People want to get back to work. And I’ve watched some of the protests, not in great detail, but I’ve seen that. And they’re separated, they’re — a lot of space in between. I mean, they — they’re watching, believe it or not, social — they’re doing social distancing, if you can believe it. And they are. And they’re protesting, but they — they’re — the groups I’ve seen have been very much spread out. So I think that’s good. Look, people — they want to get back to work, they got to make a living. They have to take care of their family. They don’t want to do this. It’s, you know, unfortunate, maybe, one way or the other. Both are unfortunate. Both are unfortunate. But you have a lot of people out there that are anxious to get back. Yeah, please. Yeah. No, that’s true. They’re — they’re both — there are two groups. They’re both — they’re big groups, both of them. Well, at the same time, we have to build back our country. And I’m going to make our country bigger and better and stronger, and we have to get started. There’s a big difference, though, because people have really been through a lot. And they understand what to do now. Before, nobody had ever heard of a thing like this, wouldn’t you say? I mean, nobody ever heard of a thing like this — distancing — social distancing. What does that mean? Washing your hands every 15 minutes. What does that mean? I mean, people had never seen or heard about anything like this. Now they really are. They’ve — they’ve — not only have they done it, but they’ve done a good job of it. But you have people — you can’t break the country. At some point, you have to go back. Now, hopefully the governors are going to do, because I want the governors — and I’ve always wanted that. You can call it federalism, you can call it whatever you want. But the governors — I want them to do it. If they — if we see them doing something we don’t like, we’ll stop it very quickly. But they’re doing a good job. They’re being careful. Some of the governors, frankly, they’re in a position where they can do it sooner or they can do it a little bit later, and that’s okay. But people — they don’t want to — they — they need money, they need help. We’re going to lose — and we can’t break our country over this. We can’t do it. We have to get going. With that being said, some are going to go soon and some are not. Yeah, in the back, please. Yeah, I think — I think it’s fine. Where is that? Where is that? And it also depends — as an example that you just gave — are they doing testing before they go in? We have to find that out. That’s why I’m speaking to the governor in a little while, and I’ll be asking him those questions. Please, go ahead. Well, the biggest thing in the tool — the toolbox is to get our country open. That’s, by far, the biggest thing there is. If we can open pretty well — and I think we’re going to over a period of time; piece by piece, a puzzle, remember? If we can open well, I think that’s your biggest part by far. That’s where the engine is, more important than any other thing that we can work on. Well, frankly, that sounds like a good idea to me, when it’s all over. That sounds like a great idea. They deserve it. They’re warriors. They’ve done an incredible job. We mentioned briefly the state aid. We talked about that — Governor Cuomo and myself — and I agree with him on that. And I think most Republicans agree too, and Democrats. And that’s part of phase four. And I think infrastructure is going to be a big part. We have to rebuild our country. I mean, you take a look where we spend — and we go over this all the time — but $8 trillion in the Middle East. We want to rebuild our country, and that means our bridges, our tunnels, even schools. We’re doing something with schools. We have to do our roadways. They’re — what’s happened? We spend so much money on other countries that don’t even — that they don’t appreciate it. Okay? They don’t appreciate it. We’re going to spend money now on our country, and we’re going to have — it’s going to be our jobs, and it’s going to be our equipment. It’s going to be made — much of it is going to be made here. Hopefully, at some point, all of it’s going to be made here. Jon? I don’t know — I don’t know what his statement — Ready? Are you ready? Again, I’ll say it for the fifth time: We have tested more than any country in the world. And some of the countries are very big. Okay? More than any country in the world. We have one of the most successful — if you call mortality — rates because one person — and I always say that for you in particular — one person is too many. But we’ve done very well — our testing. If you add them all up, we’ve — we’ve tested more. Now, I don’t know what Mike Pence said, but I’m sure he could answer that question. You know what? You ready, again? We’ve tested more than every country in the world, even put together. So that’s all I can say. As far as Mike, he’ll answer your question when he’s here. He’ll be back tomorrow. Yeah. Well, we’re going to see. Look, there’s nobody ever been tougher on China than me. And that means for 20 years. You go back 20 years. I probably got elected, at least partially, on the fact that I’ve been very tough. I said China has been ripping us off for years.” I’d go into Michigan, I’d go into Pennsylvania, and make speeches unrelated to being a politician. I’d be invited. I’d be speaking to people — which I like to do because I love the people, I love the people of this country. And I’d make speeches — nobody — I’d say, “How did you let this happen with China?” I even asked the leaders of China, “How — how did this ever happen where our country loses tens of billions of dollars a year?” And I don’t mean just tens. Take a look: $200 billion, $300 billion, $400 billion, $500 billion a year. How did they ever let a thing like this happen? Now, if you look at this last year, the deficit went way down. And I’m talking about even before; now it’s much different. But a lot of things are happening. Great things were happening, except, all of a sudden, out of nowhere, came the invisible enemy. And we think we know where it came from, and we’ll be talking about that probably a lot. But came — the invisible enemy. There’s been nobody tougher than me on China. No, no. But if that happens, we’ll do a termination and we’ll do what I can do better than anybody. Yeah, please. Well, I can’t tell you that. “Have U.S. intelligence agents told me…” I mean, what kind of a question is that? I can’t — I can’t. You want me to tell you — oh, let me tell you what they told me. Look, they told me plenty. They told me plenty. Bret? Well, I’m going to have to look. I don’t like when Harvard — that has, I think, a $40 billion endowment or some incredible amount of money — that Harvard gets this money. Harvard should pay that money back. I want Harvard to pay the money back. Okay? And if they won’t do that, then we won’t do something else. They have to pay it back. I don’t like it. I don’t like it. This is meant for workers. This isn’t meant for one of the richest institutions, not only — far beyond schools — in the world. They got to pay it back. I want them to pay it back. Yeah. Yeah. That’s true. Well, I — you know, yeah. In Doral, you’re not allowed to have the golf courses open. You can’t have the clubs open. You can’t have anything. It’s a — it’s a big hotel and resort. And I think there’s probably 700, 750 people. So you can’t have anything open. And you say, “What are we going to do? Have full payroll and have the whole place with…” You know, there’s no income coming in. First of all, everyone’s home and they’re supposed to be. Second of all, in Florida, you can’t use golf courses. That one, I’m not sure I agree with. You know, you have parks and golf courses where you have open space. But that’s what it is. So I have others also. Then I have others in different states. I have a lot of different properties. But again, my children run them, and I love my children and I wish them well. I look forward to comparing my numbers to my children’s numbers. I think I’ll do better. You understand that. It’s called closed property, it’s like, you know, you have to close them up and then hopefully when things get better, we’ll just open it up. But you can’t have, you know, many hundreds of employees standing around doing nothing. There’s no customer. You’re not allowed to have a customer. So, in some places, it’s very strict. New Jersey is strict. New York is strict. And you have to do what you have to do. And it’s too bad. I feel so badly when I see that. I think that it’s a tough policy, but I go by whatever the policy — that’s a state policy, in the case of Florida. Please, Steve. Yeah. Well, I may. But I — look, I just hope he’s doing fine. I mean, I’ve had a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un, and that’s to the benefit of the country. That’s not a bad thing; that’s a good thing. And I’d like to see him be well, and we’ll see how he does. Again, I don’t know that the reports are true. I — I don’t want to ask him that. I have asked him that, but it’s not — it’s not — it’s not my purpose to tell you that, in all fairness. But, you know, I hope he does well. Please. The lesson is to be careful. We’ve got to be very careful. We don’t want that to happen; it could happen. I think we stamp it out if it does happen. We’re not going to be doing any mass closings, I hope. So I think we could. You know, I call them “some burning embers,” and we put them out. And I think we’ve gotten very good at that, but we’ll see. But we don’t want that to happen. No, absolutely. I don’t want to do that. You don’t want to do that. Nobody in this room wants to do that. You look forward — I think, Bret, very soon, and Jon — sitting next to a lot of your fellow reporters. Right? The room seems so empty this way. But it’s one of those things. Yeah, go ahead, please. Right. Yes, I know that. Yeah, it’s a high number. I did not see that number. I heard there was a poll. I’m sure there’ll be a lot of polls. No, look, I think the American people want to make sure that they have jobs for the American people, not for people that come in, in many cases, illegally into our country. So we’re doing that. I don’t know what the numbers are, but I think just common sense tells you that’s where we should be, and that’s where the American people want to be. And we’re going to build our country back. And I’m telling you, with all the — the things that we’re doing and infrastructure, which we desperately need, it’s going to be an incredible thing taking place. I think it’s going to be a renaissance. And we’re going to have something that will be — a lot of people going to go to work building those roads and bridges and tunnels and highways and all of the other things we’re going to be building — and broadband for the Middle West. I mean, the farmers haven’t been treated fairly. Let’s face it, the farmers have been treated terribly, when it comes to the Internet. So we’re going to take care of that. We’re going to — we’re going to make them very happy. So we’ll see you all tomorrow. And we’ll have some interesting things to put out tonight. And I appreciate you being here. And it’s an honor to have Bret Baier here. I’ve used his slot a lot, Jon. I’ve used that slot a lot. Huh? It’s — no — We want to have you back soon. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We continue to see a number of positive signs that the virus has passed its peak. It’s been very devastating all over the world. A hundred and eighty-four countries. Probably more. That number was as of a week ago. Dr. Birx will walk through some of these trends in a few moments, but they’re very positive trends for winning. Going to win. We’re going to close it out. While we mourn the tragic loss of life — and you can’t mourn it any stronger than we’re mourning it — the United States has produced dramatically better health outcomes than any other country, with the possible exception of Germany. And I think we’re as good or better. On a per capita basis — remember that: On a per capita basis, our mortality rate is far lower than other nations of Western Europe, with the lone exception of possibly Germany. This includes the UK, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, France. Spain, for example, has a mortality rate that is nearly four times that of the United States, but you don’t hear that. You hear we have more death. But we’re much bigger countries than any of those countries by far. So when the fake news gets out there and they start talking about the United States is number one — but we’re not number one; China is number one, just so you understand. China is number one by a lot. It’s not even close. They’re way ahead of us in terms of death. It’s not even close. You know it. I know it. And they know it. But you don’t want to report it. Why? You’ll have to explain that. Someday I’ll explain it. Since we released the guidelines to open up America again — and this was two days ago — a number of states, led by both Democrat and Republican governors, have announced concrete steps to begin a safe, gradual, and phased opening. Texas and Vermont will allow certain businesses to open on Monday while still requiring appropriate social distancing precautions. And I can tell you the Governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, he knows what he’s doing. He’s a great governor. He knows exactly what he’s doing. Montana will begin lifting restrictions on Friday. Ohio, North Dakota, and Idaho have advised non-essential businesses to prepare for a phased opening starting May 1st. Throughout this crisis, my administration has taken unprecedented actions to rush economic relief to our citizens. As an example, you don’t hear anymore about ventilators. What happened to the ventilators? And now they’re giving you the other; it’s called “testing.” Testing. But they don’t want to use all of the capacity that we’ve created. We have tremendous capacity. Dr. Birx will be explaining that. They know that. The governors know that. The Democrat governors know that; they’re the ones that are complaining. Through the Paycheck Protection Program, we’ve already processed nearly $350 billion to 1.6 million small businesses across the nation to keep American workers on the payroll. So we’re asking the Democrats to get it done. This should be bipartisan. This should be 100 percent vote. And it’s really been incredible. The $350 billion that’s been approved is so popular, and it’s keeping businesses open. It’ll be open hopefully forever. Our swift action is directly supporting 30 million American jobs. Amy Wright, from North Carolina, as an example, said the program is a “game changer” for her and her family. It’s coffee shops. And she has 120 employees, many of whom have developmental and intellectual disabilities. And now they’re all staying, and they’re getting paid. And she’s got a dream, and it’s going to take place very quickly when she opens again. So, Amy, good luck. North Carolina — great place. Scott and Julie Alderink helped lead a church and own a restaurant in South Dakota, with about 15 employees. They were already starting layoffs. Layoffs were moving along rapidly. But now they’ve hired their employees back, and they can keep the restaurant open. And it’ll be moving quickly — very quickly — as opposed to not having anybody and probably not having a place to have all of these people employed. She would have been out of business. She would have been done. The Paycheck Protection Program funding is now fully drained. It’s out. It’s gone. Three hundred and fifty billion dollars to small businesses. And, in turn, it goes to the employees of those small businesses. Lawmakers must stop blocking these funds and replenish the program without delay. The Democrats have to come onboard. I used to read that these were Democrat programs, not Republican. It seems to have switched around a lot, hasn’t it? Huh? Switched around a lot. The republicans want it. I think the Democrats probably do too. But they also want other things that are unacceptable. This is about COVID. This is about the plague and what it’s done to us. This isn’t about extraneous things that they’ve been trying to get for years and that our country doesn’t want them to have. As we enter the next stage of our battle, we are continuing our relentless effort to destroy the virus. My administration is taking steps to protect high-risk communities by providing funding for 13,000 community health center sites and mobile medical stations. In order to equip them with the most advanced and robust testing capabilities, these sites are incredible. What they can do is incredible. The job they do is incredible. These centers provide care to 28 million people living in medically underserved urban and rural regions, including many African American and Hispanic communities. We’re taking care of them. And it’s so important, because you’ve all been reading about the disproportionate numbers on African American, and you’re reading a little bit less about Hispanic, but likewise Hispanic communities. The numbers are disproportionate. In fact, we’re doing big studies on it right now. We don’t like it. Not right. Nationwide, we’ve now conducted over 4 million tests, and Deborah will be talking about that. It’s double the number conducted by any other country on Earth. So that’s more than two times, actually, the number conducted by any other country on Earth. You hear so much about testing. What we’ve done is incredible on testing. And I started with an obsolete, broken system from a previous administration — or administrations. But I would really say “administration” for a different reason because testing has become so advanced over the last number of years, and we have the most advanced of all. I spoke with other nations this morning — the leaders — and they all are talking about our great testing capability, and some of them want to know what to do; what — how can they get involved, because they need it for their own countries. In Louisiana, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, and other hotspots, we have also tested more people per capita, by far, than Italy, Spain, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom, and all other major countries. So think of that. In New York, for instance, per capita testing is 6 percent higher than in Singapore. In fact, there’s a typo. It’s 67 percent higher. That’s a big difference. I’d say there’s a big difference between six percent and sixty- — I was looking; I said, 6 percent doesn’t look too good. It’s 67 percent — good job out there — higher than Singapore; 64 higher than South Korea; and 47 percent higher than Australia. So it’s 67 percent higher than Singapore, which is a very advanced place in terms of what they’re doing. My administration has also been speaking frequently with many of the governors to help them find and unlock the vast unused testing capacity that exists in their states. Dr. Birx discussed yesterday the commercial and academic laboratories, and the states have tremendous unused capability, which they can use. The governors should use it. Tremendous unused capability, and they’re waiting for business from these governors that — some of them complain. I must tell you, for the most part, we’re getting along great with them, but some of them like to complain. But I still go back because the hardest thing of all, by far, by a factor of 20, is the ventilators. And now we’re the king of ventilators. We have ventilators. We’re going to be helping other countries very soon. We’re going to be helping Mexico. I spoke with the President of Mexico. He’s great. A great guy. And I told him we’re going to be helping him. They desperately, in Mexico, need ventilators, and I told him we’re going to be helping him very substantially. We’re in a position to do that. We’re building, now, thousands a week. And they’re coming in rapidly, and they’re very, very high quality. But we’re also helping governors to develop strategies to smartly deploy their testing capacity to protect vulnerable and underserved populations, while getting Americans at lower risk safely back to work. So, again, we have tremendous testing capacity. Now, a lot of people like the Abbott test that we came up with. Abbott is a brand-new technology, brand-new test. It’s great. It’s five minutes, boom, you put it in. And we’re making thousands of machines. Abbott is making thousands and thousands of machines. But not everybody is going to get that one, but they’re going to get others. We have numerous platforms which we’ll talk about in a minute. Unfortunately, some partisan voices are attempting to politicize the issue of testing, which they shouldn’t be doing, because I inherited broken junk. Just as they did with ventilators where we had virtually none, and the hospitals were empty. For the most part, the hospitals didn’t have ventilators. We had to take care of the whole country, and we did a job, the likes of which nobody — we assembled an army of young, brilliant people. For the most part, young; a couple of older ones. But for the most part, they were young, brilliant geniuses that did a job like nobody would believe. I wish you could have seen it. Around the clock. And now the rest of the world is coming to us, asking if we could help them with ventilators because they’re very complicated, very expensive. They’re very hard to build. And we have them coming in by the thousands. But you don’t hear that from even the governors. Nobody is complaining about ventilators. And if there was a surge, we could have ventilators to them within hours, because we have in stockpile almost 10,000 ventilators. You don’t hear about hospital beds. When I first started, everyone was talking, “Oh, hospitals beds. Hospitals beds.” The governor of New York correctly asked me for hospital beds, and we got the Army Corps of Engineers out, and they built them. He needed them. I mean, he — we went — I know he said that we were projecting. We’re not projecting New York. We’re listening to the governors. He wanted them. He needed them. And we gave him thousands of beds in Javits Center. We brought the ship. And then the ship, we had it converted to COVID-19. And that was a big deal, by the way, because of ventilation and all the things we had to do. But we did. And fortunately for him — and for us, all of us — they haven’t used either one very much because the numbers have gone down significantly. But it was there, and it was built, and it was beautiful. Two thousand nine hundred beds. It was incredible what they did. They did it in a matter of a few days. But, unfortunately — and it was very good; the relationship was very good. And I’m, frankly, glad they don’t need them, but they were there. Louisiana, the same thing. I think the governor — a Democrat, good guy — and he will, I think, tell you a story that we had more than enough, and I said, “Well, we’re supposed to build one more.” I called him and I said, “You know, if we don’t have to build this hospital” — it was an additional anywhere from 500 to 1,000 beds. “If you don’t need it, would it be possible that we don’t build it? We’d like to build it someplace else, or not build it at all and save money,” which is okay for government to use it someplace else. And he called call me back the next day and he said, “Sir, we don’t need it.” I said, “That’s great that you say that. I appreciate it.” And he didn’t need it. But we were ready to go, and we took good care of Louisiana. We took good care of Michigan. We took good care of every place. We didn’t — we didn’t miss a trick. And we’re in great shape on testing. We have different platforms. We actually have nine different platforms. And on Monday, we’re going to be adding one; that’ll be 9 to 10. I don’t like to count on them before they’re up, but we’ll have anywhere from 9 to 10 platforms with a tremendous testing capability. And people can go, and especially with phase one. Now, at the same time — just like with ventilators — we’re building now the best ventilators. Just like with ventilators, our testing is getting better and better. I took the first test. The first test was not pleasant. This was not a pleasant thing. I said, “You got to be kidding” to the doctor. “You got to be kidding.” Up your nose and then we hang a right, and it goes down here. And then we’ll wiggle it around here, under your eye. And then we’ll pull it out and we’ll say — I said, “No, that’s — there’s no way that can happen. Is that the way it goes? You sure?” This was a very unpleasant test. And then I was tested a few weeks later with the new test that just came out, the Abbott, where they just touch your nose, basically. And they put it in a machine, and literally, a few minutes later, they tell you if you’re fine. And I was lucky in both cases, because I’ve seen the damage that this does to people. But we have great tests. They’ve really gotten better and better and better as we go along. But we have a tremendous lab capability — laboratory capability all over the country. And for some reason, the governors, they’re not — a lot of them are, but some of the governors like to complain, and they’re not using it. We have tremendous capability. We’re ready for them. And, as we go along, just like with ventilators, we’ll get better, more advanced, and, you know, it’ll be — we’ll be able to do things that nobody would have even believed possible. But we started off with a broken system. We inherited a broken, terrible system. And I always say it: Our cupboards were bare. We had very little in our stockpile. Now we’re loaded up. And we also loaded up these hospitals. And, you know, we’re talking about payment. We gave billions of dollars’ worth of things to hospitals, and we’ll have to work that out at some point. In fact, I guess they’re going to be working that out with Congress. But we loaded up hospitals. The federal government loaded up hospitals with things to take care of people that are very desperately — we’re not — we weren’t worried about payment at that time. We said, “You’ll take care of it at the right time.” But we gave billions and billions and billions of dollars’ worth of medical goods and medicines and equipment to hospitals. And we’ll — we’ll work it out with them. But people don’t like to talk about that. So we have done a job that nobody believed — this was a military and private enterprises march. We marched — and, unfortunately, with the other side, because they’re viewing it as an election. “How did President Trump do?” “Oh, he did, uh, terribly. Let’s see. He did — uh, yeah, he did terribly.” “Oh.” But we just got them the ventilators that they didn’t have, that they should have had. We just got them hospital beds by the thousands. We just got them testing that they don’t even know how to use. In some cases, they have machines that they’re only using 5 percent and 10 percent of the machine, because they have an advanced machine and they don’t know how to use it. It can use — it can do much more. So we’ve had people explain how to use it. So, I don’t know, I don’t think I do that on the other side. I don’t — I really don’t. I think that here we have a crisis that we have to work together, and I hope we’re going to work together. But we’re moving along, and we’re moving along well. We’re moving along well. This should not be a partisan witch hunt — you know? — like the Russia hunt that turned out to be a total phony deal. Unfortunately, some of these voices, though, are attempting to — to bring this into politics. And whether it’s testing or ventilators or hospital beds, or other dimensions of our sweeping public health response — we have had a sweeping response. In speaking to the leaders of other countries this morning, they said, “This is incredible the way you’ve done this so quickly.” You know, we’re only talking about a few weeks since everybody knew this was such a big problem. And the rest of the world is watching, and they respect what we’ve done because I don’t think anybody else — I know nobody else could have done what we’ve done. And we started with garbage. As our experts said yesterday, America’s testing capability and capacity is fully sufficient to begin opening up the country, totally. Indeed, our system is by far the most robust and advanced anywhere in the world, by far. The rest of the world will tell you that. I spoke this morning to a friend of mine, President Moon of South Korea. He just won the election. He won it by a lot. He had a big victory, which I was happy about. And he was saying what a great job we’ve done in this country. I told him the same thing. He said what a great job we’ve done here in this country. So I appreciated that. He had a great — by the way, he had a great victory and we’re very happy about that, from the standpoint of our country. We’re working very well with them — South Korea. As we approach — and the approach that we use — but as we approach, hopefully, the downward side of what’s going on, I think you’re going to see some incredible hard facts and evidence that what we did was right. There’s a lot of talk about herd — the word “herd.” I don’t want to show you charts of people that went a different way, but it’s scary. It’s scary. We would have had, I think, millions of people die had we done a different way. And I think numbers are just coming out where they’re estimating 60,000 people will die. That’s horrible. I always say one person is too much, especially in this case, when it could have been stopped in China. It could have been stopped in China, before it started, and it wasn’t. And the whole world is suffering because of it. But this herd concept — and everybody had to think of it at the beginning, because, look — look at us: We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. Better than China; better than any country in the world; better than any country has ever had. We had the highest stock market in history, by far. And I’m honored by the fact that it has started to go up very substantially. That’s because the market is smart. The market is actually brilliant. I’ve seen it. And they’re viewing it like we’ve done a good job. They view it that way. Because if you would have told me that we’re at 24,000 or beyond, and the highest we were ever was — we never hit 30. We were getting close to 30, so let’s say around 29,000. We’re at 24. If we were heading down, I would start to say, “Oh, wow, we may be heading into territory where I started.” I didn’t like that. Now we’re way up. But if you would have said to me with what we’ve gone through — not caused by our country or our people or any — I mean, not caused by certainly anybody within our country. But if you would have said that, after going through this horrible plague, that we’d have a stock market that’s much, much higher than when I started, much higher than where I started — and I think it’s — you know, I think we have tremendous momentum. We have a big election coming up, but I think we have tremendous momentum. First, we get rid of the plague. And because of what we’re doing with the PPP, what we’re doing with the Paycheck, as we call it, I think we have a chance to have these companies get back to action quickly. But our approach to testing is based on facts, data, and very hard evidence, not partisan agendas or coordinated political talking points. Mike Pence, who’s a phenomenal guy, he’s making the commencement address right now at the Air Force Academy, where they’re being very politically correct. Everyone is standing not 6 feet but 10 feet apart. Okay? And it’s very different. I made that speech last year. I’m going to West Point. I think they’re changing the date to June 13th because of what’s going on in New York. They’re moving into June 13th. West Point. So I’m doing their commencement speech, and they’re going to have — it’s sad because — but it’s a big start — they’re going to have the cadets. They may not have the parents, but they’re going to have the cadets. The parents are so proud of them. I know at the Air Force Academy, where Mike is speaking right now, they don’t have the parents; they have the cadets. They’re very, very widespread. And you talk about social distancing — I mean, they are really spread. I looked at it. They using 10 feet. So he’s — he’s doing that. But they’re having it. It’s very important to have it. And that’s a great thing. That’s a great thing. That’s a big start. So he’s there right now. And I will tell you, they — he’s a gentleman, Mike Pence. A real gentleman. And they requested — the Democrat senators requested a phone call with him yesterday. And I think they had, for the most part, all of them on — like, approximately 47. I heard it was just about all of them, whatever it might be. I don’t want to be wrong by 1 or 2 or 10 and have the press say, “He lied. He told a lie. Terrible, terrible.” Whatever it was. But they have 47, and I guess most of them were on. I heard they were so rude. I used a term today — I said, rude and nasty. But I heard they were so rude. No matter what he said, which was all very positive in terms of winning this battle against the invisible enemy — no matter what he said, they were fresh. They were nasty. And it was, I heard, just a terrible thing. And I said, “Mike, that’s politics. That’s what it is.” If we came into this room today and said, “The battle is over. We have won. It’s 100 percent gone.” The Democrats would say, “The President has done a horrible job. He has done a disgraceful job. It is a shame how bad he is.” You know, it’s — it’s — this is the talking points; this is political. And it would be nice not to have that, especially when we’ve done the job we’ve done. I mean, all you have to do is look at the big — the big “V” for victory or “V” for ventilator. Take a look at it. Everybody said they had us on that; they had us. They thought they had us, but we got them done at numbers that nobody would have believed. And we did use our Act, our Production Act, and we used it. But didn’t use it — we didn’t need it like a hammer. All we had to do — for the most part — we used it, actually, in a number of cases. But for the most part, all we had to do is talk about it. All we had to do is say, “We’re going to use it if you don’t do this.” And everybody was, you know, for the most part, good. We used it a couple of times because it didn’t work out the easy way, but it worked out the hard way. But whether it was masks or ventilator, it was incredible what we’ve been able to do. So this is a very critical time for the American people, and the American people deserve real information, and responsible and thoughtful dialogue from their elected leaders and from the media. The media has been — some very honest, but some very dishonest. You know that. You know that. I mean, I even read a story where Mark Meadows — a tough guy — he was crying; he was crying. This was a Maggie Haberman. You know, she won a Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of Russia, but she was wrong on Russia. So was everyone else. They should all give back their Pulitzer Prizes. In fact, it turned out that the crime was committed by the other side. The crime was not committed by this side; it was committed by the other side — a bunch of bad people. You saw the reports coming out over the last two weeks. They got caught. So Maggie Haberman gets a Pulitzer Prize? She’s a third-rate reporter. New York Times. And we put her name up here last week. You saw that. People thought it was a commercial. It wasn’t a commercial. It was like a commercial, but it wasn’t a commercial. It was just clips. And because we exposed her as being a bad reporter, what happened is she came out and said Mark Meadows was crying. And they made it sound — I said, “Mark” — and it’s okay if he did. I wouldn’t — you know, look. But I think he was crying probably — really, for the wrong reason they had it down. But he’s not a crier. And if he was — I know criers. I could tell you people that you know that are very famous. They cry, and that’s okay too. But it was a nasty story in so many ways. It was fake news. And she only did it because we exposed her for being a terrible, dishonest reporter. She is. I’ve known her for a long while. I haven’t spoken to her in a long time. I made the mistake: I take a picture with her at the desk, a long time ago. Every time she does a story, if I say — I haven’t spoken to her in long — many, many, many months, maybe years. I don’t speak to her. She’s fake. A lot of people are fake. A lot of people We got a lot of fake people. But what happens is she writes this story as retribution. Puts it in the New York Times. And the New York Times is a very dishonest newspaper. It’s my opinion. It’s not an opinion. It’s actually, from my standpoint — you know, the very hard thing to figure, though: Most people wouldn’t know that, but I know it because I know the facts. And they make up — I said it today; they make up words. “Sources say…” Most often used: “Sources say…” You know what “sources say” means? “Sources say” means they have nobody. And they make it up. Okay? And they have a few other type statements that mean the same thing. But “sources say” is the most often-used express- — in the Washington Post; New York Times, especially; CNN — fake news. CNN. They should really be mandated, and I mean mandated to use a name. If there’s a source, use a name. Say that Kayleigh — “Kayleigh McEnany said…” or somebody. And you’d find out that the — number one, the source wouldn’t say it. The sources don’t exist. I don’t believe the sources exist. And I try and tell this — you know, the beautiful thing about doing these conferences is that we have tremendous numbers of viewers, and I’m able to reach the viewers without having to go through fake news, where they make a good story into a bad story. So, with all of that, it’s been an incredible period of time. We’ve done a fantastic job. We’re the talk of other nations. The leaders of other nations are calling us for help. They’re calling us for equipment. They’re calling us for testing capacities. Now, with the testing, we are going further. Deborah is going to talk about that now. With the testing, we have some other tests coming up that are going to be, I think, phenomenal. I think they’re going to blow away everything as soon as they come out, and we’re going to get them out as soon as possible. But I’d like to ask Dr. Birx to come up and say a few words about where we’ve come, how far we’ve come, and more importantly, where we’re going from this point. Because honestly, it’s — it’s quite amazing. Thank you very much. And, excuse me, does anybody really believe this number? Does anybody really believe this number? If I might add, though, also — — the number for Iran. Does anybody really believe that number? You see what’s going on over there. Does anybody — put that slide back, if you would. Does anybody believe this number? Does anybody believe this number? You saw more bags — — on television than that. Thank you very much, Deborah. Fantastic job. Is this yours? Thank you very much. The fact is that we’ve been learning a lot from Deborah and Tony and so many of the professionals, the director. Six years ago, approximately. So we’re looking at that. And that’s the lab that people are talking about. All right, so we’re looking at a lot of things. There’s tremendous waste in our government. We found it in many different ways and in many different forms. And this is one of them. This is one of them. We can spend — I was talking to Dr. Birx — we can spend $500 million using all of it in a much more efficient manner if we’re — if we choose to do that. And it’ll be to the good of many more people than are getting it right now. But you look at the mistakes that were made — I mean, so late, long after I said we have to close off our country. They were actually against our closing off our country to China. When I did that in January, they were against that. They didn’t like the idea of closing off our country. They said it was a bad thing to do, actually, and they’ve since taken that back. But it was a very lucky thing that we did it. Very lucky. We would have had numbers that were very significantly greater. Tony Fauci said that. He said it would have been very significantly greater had we not done that. So we’ve made a lot of moves that were good moves, but it’s still a very depressing subject because it’s a lot of death. And if it was stopped very early on at the source, before it started blowing into these proportions, you have 184 countries that would have been in a lot better shape. But our country is getting back, and I expect that we’re going to be bigger, better, and stronger than ever before. All right, we’ll take a few questions. Jeff. Well, you tell me: Do you think their data is good, when you see that? Do you think that — do you think that’s correct? Okay? Do you honestly believe that’s correct? Dramatic? Yeah, I’d say it’s dramatic. Why didn’t the — why didn’t the press — why didn’t you people figure that out though? Why do we have to put up a chart? It’s — the number is imposs- — it’s an impossible number to hit. But why haven’t you come up and said that? Well, they said they’re doing an investigation — that they’re doing an investigation. So let’s see what happens with their investigation. But we’re doing investigations also. Yeah, go ahead. Please. Well, if they were knowingly responsible, certainly. If they did — if it was a mistake: a mistake is a mistake. But if it were knowingly responsible, yeah, then there should be consequences. You’re talking about, you know, potentially lives like nobody has seen since 1917. And, you know, the other thing, had we not done what we did in terms of closing — because there is that concept of, “Let’s let it ride.” But I’m — at some point, I’m going to have to — I don’t want to embarrass countries that I like and leaders that I like, but you have to see some of these numbers. In my opinion — so we’re talking about maybe 60,000 or so; that’s a lot of people. But that’s — 100,000 was the minimum we thought that we could get to, and we — we will be lower than that number. Anywhere from 100 to 220,000 people. But I really believe it could have been millions of people had we not done what we did. We made a lot of good decisions, but one of those things. Go ahead. I haven’t ruled out anything. I want to look at the facts as they come in. No, I want to look at the facts. Please. Go ahead. Who are with? No, I know, but who are you with? TMN. What is TMN? What? Talk Media News. Go ahead. Keep reading your question. Well, we’re doing that. We’re doing — we’re doing it. We’re doing it right now with ventilators. We have General Motors. We have General Electric. We have 11 different companies — great companies — building them for us all over the United States. We’re starting to make our own gowns, as they call it. We’re making some incredible things. And as far as the testing is concerned, most of that now is done in the United States. We’re doing it in the United States on different platforms. And so I just don’t think you were listening. Which senators? Which senators? Which senators? But he’s not an independent, okay? Angus King is worse than any Democrat. Go ahead. Of course he said that, because he’s a — he’s a Democrat. Okay? Angus King is not an independent. He uses that term for whatever reason. It’s a waste of time. Oh, yes, he is. You haven’t seen him. Okay? You haven’t seen him. No, Angus King is a Democrat, and that was totally staged. I heard that, and it was totally staged. Just like you read the question, he read his question. Yeah, please, in the back. Which one? Yeah — no, I would like to see that. And, you know, I just spoke with leaders and people that love mosques; they love mosques, and I’m all in favor of that. But I would say that there could be a difference. And we’ll have to see what will happen, because I’ve seen a great disparity in this country. I’ve seen a great disparity. I mean, I’ve seen a very strong anti-Israel bent in Congress with Democrats. It — it was unthinkable 7 or 8 or 10 years ago. And now they’re into a whole different thing between Omar and AOC — I say AOC plus three. Add them on. You have — I mean, the things that they say about Israel are so bad. And I — I can’t believe it. Now — just a minute. So I would be interested to see that, because they go after Christian churches, but they don’t tend to go after mosques. And I don’t want them to go after mosques, but I do want to see what their — what their bent is. Yes, please, in the back. Go ahead, please. No, I — I think that — I just had a call imams. I just had a call with ministers, rabbis. We had a tremendous call with the faith leaders. No, I don’t think that at all. I am somebody that believes in faith. And it matters not what your faith is, but our politicians seem to treat different faiths very differently. And they seem to think — and I don’t know what happened with our country, but the Christian faith is treated much differently than it was. And I think it’s treated very unfairly. Yes, please, go ahead. In the back. Let’s go. OAN. Yeah. Well, she thinks it’s politics. I don’t think it’s good politics. Nancy Pelosi has been blocking it. Schumer has been blocking it. And I think they think it’s good politics. I don’t think it’s good politics; I think it’s bad politics. But I don’t care about the politics. It’s so great for our country because we’re going to have all of these companies that are — you know, it’s a bigger employer — let’s say it’s the same, but essentially, it’s the same power — all of these small businesses added together — as the big companies. It’s about 50/50. And it’s so important. And they would be scattered if we weren’t able to do what we’re doing. And, essentially, we’re giving these small businesses that won’t make it — they can’t because they’re closed — we’re giving them money to take care of their employees, so when we open, they can get back into business. It’s been a very popular plan, even with Democrats. I think it basically passed unanimously twice — the first section — which is $350 billion. So we’re trying to get $250 [billion]. Nancy Pelosi is blocking it. She sits in her house in San Francisco, overlooking the ocean, and she doesn’t want to come back. She doesn’t want to come back. She doesn’t want to come back to D.C. She’s got to get back and get this thing approved. It’s very important. Please. Go ahead. And many of the counties, as you know, are really free of this horrible enemy. So we’re opening up. You’ll be seeing a lot of this country start to open up fairly quickly. Yes, please. Well, we have a flexibility. I didn’t see what Stephen said. I can tell you he’s a very good economist. He’s been calling shots right — Well, there is a lot of injustice. When you look at Virginia, where they want to take your guns away, they want to violate your Second Amendment; when you look at — I mean, look, I’m getting along very nicely with the governor of Michigan, but she has things — don’t buy paint, don’t buy roses, don’t buy — I mean, she’s got all these crazy things. I really believe somebody sitting in their boat, in a lake, should be okay. They shouldn’t arrest people. Some of them are being unreasonable. I really believe that. They’re being unreasonable. But I think Virginia is a great case, though, because they’re using this — they’re trying to take your guns away in Virginia. And if people in Virginia aren’t — aren’t careful, that’s what’s going to happen to them. So, yeah, I mean, I could see where he’s coming from. I think it’s a strong statement — a strong statement — because hopefully this will be over very soon for all of us. But some have gotten carried away. They have absolutely gotten carried away. I don’t know. I mean, I notice there were a lot of protests out there. And I just think that some of the governors have gotten carried away. You know, we have a lot of people that don’t have to be told to do what they’re doing. They’ve been really doing everything we’ve asked them. We have a few states where, frankly, I spoke to the governors and I could have gotten them to do — if I wanted — to do what would have been, perhaps, politically correct. But they’ve been doing incredibly anyway. And as one of them said, everybody is doing exactly the same. In fact, our record is better than states where they’re under a mandate or, you know, where they’ve agreed to do certain things. No, we have some great states out there, and we have incredible people in our country. And for the most part, that — it’s a strong statement, but I understand where he’s coming from. And I think one of the greats would be — one of the really important places that people really have to start looking at is what’s going on in Virginia, because that’s a mess, where the gover- — with, really, a governor that’s under siege anyway. Yeah, please. No, with the beautiful head of white hair. Go ahead. I’ll tell you if I like his hair in about a minute, after he asks the question. Yeah. Well, I think, just for that question, I think that’s an easy one. That’s not even politics. We’re entitled to a Second Amendment, and he’s trying to take the Second Amendment. Meaning, that state is trying to take — the Democrats in that state — the Republicans are fighting it. They’re trying to take that — that Second Amendment right — that Second Amendment right away. To me, that’s liberty. That’s — when I say, “liberate Virginia,” I would say, liberate Virginia when that kind of thing happens. And where does it all stop? So I think it’s a very good analogy. Go ahead. I think when they talk about taking your guns away — and if you notice, at the beginning of this pandemic, there were more guns sold, I think, than at almost any time in history, because — so it’s obviously a big issue. And then you have them working and signing documents, trying to take your — your Second Amendment away, essentially. So I do think it’s an appropriate time to bring it up. Go ahead. Go ahead. Second. Yeah. I don’t — I don’t see it. No, I don’t see it. We had a very good relationship with Russia. We worked on the oil deal together. I was with — — by telephone, the King of Saudi Arabia and the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin. We worked out a deal on oil. That was a very important deal to them and to us and to Saudi Arabia. It was in a deadlock. You know it; you covered it very well. Actually, the Wall Street Journal covered that very well. I worked with Putin and with the King on that. And President Putin was a total gentleman, and it was very important to get that done. And the King was great. And we actually had to bring in Mexico, because Mexico was a lone holdout and they showed great flexibility. You know the story. No, I think we’re doing fine. Yeah, sure, it’s — North Korea, I see they’re testing short-range missiles. And, you know, they’ve been doing it a long time. I received a nice note from him recently. It was a nice note. I think we’re doing fine. Look, if I wasn’t elected, you would, right now, be at war with North Korea. Okay? I’ll tell you, for your people that don’t understand the world and they don’t understand how life works: If I wasn’t elected, you would, right now — maybe the war would be over, hopefully with a victory. But if you remember, when I first came in, we didn’t have ammunition. Not a good way to fight a war. President Obama left us no ammunition. Okay? And he left us virtually no medical and ventilators. He left us — the cupboard was dry, right? The cupboard was dry. No, I think, right now, you’d be at war, essentially — in some form — it would be over, it would be raging — with North Korea, if I weren’t President. And we’re doing just fine with North Korea. Just fine. We’ll see how it all ends up. You know, in the meantime, they said, “Oh, Trump has given up.” And then they said “Oh, really, what’s he given up?” And they said, “I don’t know.” Then they said, “He met.” Oh, I met. I met. No, I have a good relationship with Kim Jong Un. That’s not a bad thing to have a good relationship. Obama wanted a relationship; he wouldn’t meet with Obama. Wouldn’t meet with him. Okay? I have a good relationship with him. We met at the line. I stepped over the line. The first time anything like that’s ever — it’s all good. It’s just — it’s good. But when they say — the stupid people — I call them “stupid people” or “the haters.” They say, “Trump has given up so much.” Really? I’ve actually increased the sanctions. China has been very good on the border. In fact, right now, the border is stone-cold closed between China and North Korea. Our relationship with China was good until they did this. Once we found out about this — once we found out — look, we just made a trade deal where China is going to have to buy $250 billion a year on our product. Fifty billion from the farmers. Forty to fifty billion from the farmers. The relationship was good when we were signing that, but then all of a sudden, you hear about this. So it’s a big — it’s a big difference. You know, the question was asked, “Would you be angry at China?” Well, the answer might very well be a very resounding “yes,” but it depends: Was it a mistake that got out of control or was it done deliberately? Okay? That’s a big difference between those two. In either event, they should have let us go in. You know, we asked to go in very early, and they didn’t want us in. I think they were embarrassed. I think they knew it was something bad, and I think they were embarrassed. But, you know — no, I think we’re doing very well. Well, it’s — so you said Russia, you said China — — you said North Korea. Iran? When I came in, Iran was a terror. We had 82 points of fighting. We had 18 points of major confliction. The first week, I said, “Tell me about Iran.” “Sir, we have 18 points of confliction.” Meaning, Yemen and Syria and all — Iraq. They were going into Iraq all over the place. They’re a much a different nation right now. I stopped that horrible deal. Horrible deal. And they want to talk, except that Kerry violated the Logan Act. He made the deal, and doesn’t want them to make a deal because — I would have made a deal, in my opinion, except that John Kerry, when he — who made the deal originally, which was a stupid deal to make. Gave them $150 billion. Gave 1.8 billion in cash, in green. That would be more than this room, 10 times, with hundred-dollar bills. That you could fill up this room 10 times with hundred-dollar bills. And it’s not that small a room. And I say he violated the Logan Act. I think it was a major violation. I think we would have had a deal if it wasn’t for John Kerry. But he doesn’t want to be, number one, embarrassed. Number two, he said, “Let’s wait until after the election. Maybe Sleep Joe Biden is going to win. And if Sleep Joe Biden wins, you’ll own the United States.” And China will own the United States. China has paid us — you know, from the Wall Street Journal — hundreds of billions of dollars — is that right? — tariffs. And we gave a lot of that money — a small percentage — but a lot of money to the farmers, and it kept the farmers going great. All right? But hundreds — we get — we’re getting tens of billions of dollars in tariffs. And, by the way, for those of you that say, “Oh we’re paying,” China devalued their currency in order to pay these. We didn’t pay. China paid. They don’t like to write that. They also added money into their system. So they paid for that. No, I think you have numerous countries waiting to see whether or not Sleepy Joe wins, because if Sleepy Joe won, they own our country. They will take our country. You know, we had — go back two months — we had, by far — and China was supposed to catch us. You know better than anybody, Wall Street Journal. For years, I’ve heard, “By 2019, China will catch us.” There’s only one problem: Trump got elected in 2016. That was a big difference. And we were going leaps and bounds above China. And before the problem with the plague — right? — China was having the worst year they’ve had in 67 years. That was before the plague. Now they’re getting really hurt, and so is everybody getting hurt. I don’t want them to get hurt, but they’re all getting hurt. Everybody is getting hurt. It’s a horrible thing that’s happened. But we had the greatest economy in the world, by far. China isn’t even close — go back two months — and we’re going to keep it that way. But when you mention Iran, Iran is a much different country than it was. When I first came in, Iran was going to take over the entire Middle East. Right now, they just want to survive. They’re having protests every week. They’re loaded up with the plague — which I don’t want; I’ve offered to help them if they want. If they need ventilators, which they do, I would send them ventilators. We have thousands of excess ventilators coming in and here. We have a stockpile of ventilators, and we’re starting to send them so that hospitals can fill up their stockpile, which they should have. New York had a chance to get 16,000 ventilators, and they chose not to do it. And I understand that. It’s a hard decision for a thing that may or may not happen. I fully understand that. I’m not even complaining about that. I’m only saying this: Iran was a terror when I came into office. Right now, they don’t want to mess around with us. They don’t want to mess around with us. Two things: North Korea, same sanctions we’ve always had, except more. We haven’t given anything. I think you’ll hopefully take that back to the Wall Street Journal, because they really don’t understand it. They really don’t. And with — with Iran, I mean, that’s a different country right now. And they want to make a deal. The only reason they don’t — they’re being shamed in, because the guy that gave them the sweetheart, didn’t want to. Met with them many times. He should have never met with them. And in my opinion, he’s telling them, “Don’t. Wait. Maybe Trump will lose and then you can negotiate with a patsy, with a weak guy. And you’ll take over the — between you and Russia…” Nobody has been tougher on Putin. He knows it better than anybody. Nobody been tougher on Putin than me. Look at the sanctions. Look at what I did with their pipeline going into Europe. Nobody even knew about it. I exposed it. Now everybody talks about it. I think it’s a terrible thing for Germany to do. But at the same time, I have a very good relationship with Putin, and I was able to get — I was able to make a deal with Russia and Saudi Arabia and OPEC Plus. They call “OPEC Plus.” That’s going to save us Texas, North Dakota, Oklahoma, other states, energy states. Going to save us hundreds of thousands of jobs. And, in fact, your paper wrote an incredible editorial, for a change, that “Trump made a great deal for our country.” That was a nice thing. I was shocked to see it coming out of the Wall Street Journal. Thank you all very much. We’ll see you tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. I just had a great conversation with the leading faith leaders of our country. It went extremely well. We learned a lot. I learned a lot. And we’re working on some things that are very interesting and very positive. I thank them all for being on the call. And yesterday, we unveiled detailed guidelines for America’s governors to initiate a phased, safe, and gradual reopening of America. That’s what’s happening. The guidelines provide governors with the fact-driven and science-based metrics they will need to make the decisions that are right for their own particular state. To view the guidelines, you can go to the website at Whitehouse.gov/OpeningAmerica. So that’s Whitehouse.gov/OpeningAmerica. Treasury has sent out economic relief payments to more than 80 million Americans who have their direct deposit information on file with the IRS. And an incredible success it has been. If you have not received your check, please visit IRS.gov/GetMyPayment. How about that one? IRS.gov/GetMyPayment. That way, the IRS can get you your payment in days — and they’ve done a fantastic job, I have to say — and you won’t have to wait for a check in the mail. I have some very good news: We sent out 80 million deposits, and less than 1 percent had even little problems. A couple had minor glitches, but it’s substantially less than 1 percent. So out of 80 million deposits, less than 1 percent. And that gets corrected immediately. So just please do as I say. You’ll get that very quickly, very easily. Today, I’m also announcing that Secretary Perdue — who happens to be right next to me; handsome man — and the Department of Agriculture will be implementing a 19-billion-dollar relief program for our great farmers and ranchers as they cope with the fallout of the global pandemic. Very honored to be doing this. Our farmers, ranchers — we have — these are great people, great Americans. Never complain. They never complain. They just do what they have to do. The program will include direct payments to farmers as well as mass purchases of dairy, meat, and agricultural produce to get that food to the people in need. The USDA will receive another $14 billion in July that will have funding to continue help our — helping. And this will help our farmers and our ranchers, and it’s money well deserved. So not only were they targeted at one point by China — and that was over a period of time, and you saw that happening. And they never complained, but that worked out very well. Twelve billion dollars they got, and sixteen billion dollars they got. And now it’s $19 billion. And I’m just going to ask Secretary Perdue to explain exactly how we’re going to handle it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Sonny. Fantastic job. Thank you, Sonny. So, our great Secretary of Agriculture was the governor of Georgia for eight years, and the only reason he isn’t still there, frankly, is that he was term limited. And I said, “Let’s get him for agriculture.” And you’ve done a fantastic job. We want to thank you very much. Eight years at Georgia. We really appreciate it. Great job. Even as we prepare to rebuild our economy, America continues to wage an all-out medical war to defeat the invisible enemy. To date, we have conducted more than 3.78 million coronavirus tests — by far, the most of any country; it’s not even close. In the hardest-hit areas, such as New York and Louisiana, we’ve also tested more people per capita than South Korea, Singapore, and every other country. The United States has the most robust, advanced, and accurate testing system anywhere in the world. As of yesterday, we have distributed nearly 660,000 Abbott IDs. Now, that’s a — an incredible test. It’s called the ID NOW point-of-care diagnostic test. And it’s fantastic. It’s a hot — it’s the hot one. The problem with this business is it’s the hot one until about two days from now, because we do have a saliva test that just came out, and that can be self-administered, and it’s said to be fantastic. I want to thank Abbott Laboratories. They have been incredible. I want to thank Roche. They’ve likewise been incredible. Over the last several days, we’ve seen a dramatic increase in the number of tests conducted by hospitals and academic institutions, which have now performed nearly 600,000 tests. There is a tremendous amount of unused capacity in the states available for governors to tap. We have tremendous unused capability within those laboratories, and I hope the governors are going to be able to use them. The governors are responsible for testing, and I hope they’re going to be able to use this tremendous amount of available capacity that we have. It’s up to 1 million additional tests per week — when you think of that. In the next few weeks, we’ll be sending out 5.5 million testing swabs to the states. Swabs can be done easily by the governors themselves. Mostly, it’s cotton. It’s not a big deal. You can get cotton easily. But if they can’t get it, we will take care of it. Yesterday, the FDA announced a new collaboration with United Health Group, the Gates Foundation, Quantigen, and U.S. Cotton to greatly expand the supply of essential swabs, including a new polyester Q-tip-type swab for the coronavirus testing. All of these actions will help our testing capability continue to grow dramatically. So we’re helping people, even with swabs. We get ventilators. We’re now the king of ventilators. We have hundreds of thousands under construction. We don’t need them ourselves. The governors are in great shape. If we do, we have a great stockpile that we’ll immediately send to the state in need. But we’ve handled that situation incredibly well. I hope people understand it. I wish the media would get the word out. What we’ve done in ventilators is amazing, because they’re big, expensive, and highly complex. We’re speaking to other countries. I spoke to the President of Mexico today — a great gentleman — and I told him that we are going to be helping him out with ventilators, helping Mexico out. And we’ll be helping some other countries too. We have a lot of very high-level, high-quality ventilators. And they’re here, and they’re also being manufactured as we speak. Following the announcement of our reopening guidelines, there have been some very partisan voices in the media and in politics who have spread false and misleading information about our testing capacity — it’s totally false and misleading — demonstrating a complete failure to understand the enormous scope of the testing capabilities that we’ve brought online. And we started, really, from ground zero. We started from really being very, very outdated and obsolete as a country, from the past. And I will say this: If they didn’t understand it, it’s just really — unfortunately, I hate to say this because we’ve been getting along very well, but it would be false reporting, because they understand the capability. And it’s going to be up to the states to use that capability. The states have local points where they can go — a governor can call the mayors, and the mayors can call representatives, and everybody — everything is perfect. And that’s the way it should work and always should work. We’ll help New York and all of the other states get even better on their testing. We have to get even better. And some people think a little bit differently. There are areas where you have vast amounts of area where you have very few people and almost no people are infected. And those places will be looked upon differently by different governors. And I think you’re going to have a lot of news coming out about that over the next few days. I think certain states are going to come online, and they’re going to start the early stages of the puzzle that we’re putting together. And it’s going to be together sooner rather than later. A lot of really incredible things are happening. And at some point in the not-too-distant future, we’re going to have our country back. And it’s going to be, I think, really — with what we’re doing on stimulus, and helping people keep their businesses together and their lives together and their jobs, it’s going to be better than ever before. I hope so. I really do. The current conversation is reminiscent of what happened on ventilators — you remember that — when requests were made far beyond what was objectively needed. We were hearing from a certain state and we were hearing from a lot that they needed far more ventilators. In one case, they wanted 40,000 ventilators — 40,000. It turned out that they had plenty and they had a number of about 7- or 8,000, and that was plenty. We supplied them with a lot. But that was the right number; we got it just about right. And if they did need more, we’re ready to give more, but I think the surge seems to be over. And there are a lot of governors just doing a great job. And they’re working with us, but we’re all working together. The research and development that we’ve done at the federal level has been absolutely incredible. The media will be accepting of these figures when they get to see the end result. I think they’re going to see it and I think they’re already seeing it. That includes not only ventilators, but beds. We’ve built, in most cases, far more than they even needed, but we wanted to err on the side of caution. This is what the governors wanted. They wanted a certain amount in Louisiana. I spoke with the governor; I had a long talk with him. And I said, “Do you think you’ll need that final hospital?” And they actually didn’t need it. We built a lot of — a lot of beds. So, I appreciate it, from the governor. And we saved — building a hospital in New York, we did a — I think, just a spectacular job at the Javits Center. And even sending the ship up became — we brought it into COVID, but they didn’t — they didn’t really need it. It didn’t get much use, but it was there and ready. It wasn’t supposed to be used for that purpose; we changed it into that purpose. And it was there — ready, willing, and able. Same with Javits, but they didn’t quite need the rooms that we — the beds that we — we produced. So we produced almost 2,900 beds, and I think I’d rather tell you that we were over-prepared that we were — than we were underprepared. And that was a good-faith effort by New York, I have to say that. A very good faith effort. But it’s nice that we didn’t need that, instead of needing it. It was not very occupied, but it was ready to go. It’s still there should something happen, but I think they have it under very good control. As you’ll hear from our experts today, we’ve already built sufficient testing capacity nationwide for states to begin their reopenings. And I think you’ll be hearing a lot about reopenings in the coming weeks and months. Most excitingly, in the coming weeks, I think you’re going to see some very, very dramatic steps taken and very safely. We’re putting safety first. We may be opening, but we’re putting safety first. And when you look at the numbers, when you look at the possible number of death — deaths at 2.2 million people — and it could have very well been that. It could have been more. Frankly, I’ve been looking at numbers where it could have been higher than that — 2.2 million people dying. If you figure we lost 500,000, maybe 600,000 in the Civil War. 2.2 million people. A minimum, if we did nothing, would have been 1.6 [million]. If you cut that in half, you’re talking about 800,000, 900,000, a million people dying. But we did a lot of work, and the people of this country were incredible, I have to say. And I think we’re heading to the other category, and that would be if we did work and if it was successful, they had between 100,000 and 220,000 to 240,000 on the upside. And I think we’ll be substantially, hopefully, below the hundred number. And I think, right now, we’re heading at probably around 60-, maybe 65,000. And one is too many. I always say it: One is too many. This is a horrible thing that happened to our country. This is a horrible thing that happened to 184 countries all over the world. This is a horrible thing, and there was no reason for it. It should never, ever happen again. In a few minutes, you’ll be hearing from Dr. Redfield, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Birx, and Admiral Giroir to explain these facts in — in really great detail. Earlier this week, the FDA authorized two new antibody tests — which is very exciting — that will determine if someone has been previously infected with the virus, bringing the total to four authorized antibody tests already. This will help us assess the number of cases that have been asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, and support our efforts to get Americans back to work by showing us who might have developed the wonderful, beautiful immunity. Ultimate victory in this war will be made possible by America’s scientific brilliance. There is nothing like us. There is nobody like us. Not even close. I wish I could tell you stories — what other countries, even powerful countries, say to me — the leaders. They say it quietly and they say it off the record, but they have great respect for what we can do. And our country is at a point — a few weeks ago, think of it — four or five weeks ago, we were at a level that nobody had ever attained: the best job numbers we’ve ever had, the best economy we’ve ever had. Every company virtually was doing better business than ever before. The stock market was at all-time highs. And then one day, they said, “You got to close it up.” And we did the right thing. We saved maybe millions of lives by doing it the way we did it. But we’re paying a price, but that price is very unimportant compared to the number of lives we’re talking about. The NIH and others are conducting clinical trials of 35 different therapies and treatments — therapies being so exciting to me, because that’s really like — if something happens, you’re going to get better reasonably quickly and without such a horrible deal, as some people have to go through. To that end, today NIH announced that it is launching a public-private partnership with more than a dozen biopharmaceutical companies. They’re — HHS, FDA, CDC, and the European Medicines Agency, they’re all working together. We’re working together with a lot of other countries. The partnership will marshal and coordinate the vast resources, knowledge, assets, and authorities of more than a dozen organizations and agencies to accelerate development of the most promising therapies and vaccines. The vaccines are coming along really, really well. Johnson & Johnson is very well advanced. One thing is they have to — we’re having great, great success, but we have to test them and it takes a long period of time. It takes probably over a year, unfortunately. But therapies likewise are coming along very, very well. Therapies are immediate. When we get that, that’ll be a big day. We’re also equipping our medical warriors on the frontlines. In total, we have the Project Air Bridge — and the air bridge has been incredible; the National Strategic Stockpile; and every other channel the federal government has deployed. If you think about this: 44.5 million N95 masks, nearly 524 million gloves, 63.5 million surgical masks, and more than 10 million gowns. And we have 500 million masks coming in very soon, between manufacturing and orders — 500 million masks. The last few months have been among the most challenging times in the history of our nation. This invisible enemy is tough and it’s smart and it’s vicious. But every day, we’re getting closer to the future that we all have been waiting for. I talk about the light at the end of the tunnel; we are getting very, very close to seeing that light shine very brightly at the end of that tunnel. And it’s happening, and I want to thank everybody in the room. I want to thank — I actually want to thank some of the media. We’ve had some fair coverage — some really fair coverage — and I appreciate it. What I’m going to do is I’m going to introduce our great Vice President, Mike Pence, and he’s going to take over for a little while. I’m going to leave and I’m coming right back, and we’ll take some questions. They’re going to go over our tremendous testing capabilities. And again, I’ll be right back. Thank you. Thank you very much. He did well? They all did well? I think. I’ll bet they did. Please, go ahead. Who said this? Well, I think we do have a sobering guidance, but I think some things are too tough. And if you look at some of the states you just mentioned, it’s too tough. Not only relative to this, but what they’ve done in Virginia with respect to the Second Amendment is just a horrible thing. They did a horrible thing — the governor. And he’s a governor under a cloud, to start off with. So when you see what he said about the Second Amendment, when you see what other states have done — no, I think I feel very comfortable. Go ahead. No, but I think elements of what they’ve done are too much. I mean, it’s just too much. You know the elements — — because I’ve already said. But certainly, Second Amendment, and Second Amendment having to do with the state of Virginia. What they’ve done in Virginia is just incredible. Okay. Please. No, these are people expressing their views. I see where they are and I see the way they’re working. They seem to be very responsible people to me, but it’s — you know, they’ve been treated a little bit rough. Please, in the back. Yeah. Well, we’re seeing great numbers in almost every state. We’re seeing big drops. We’re really seeing — in terms of beds — the numbers we have to look at are the beds — the beds being occupied. People going — which is essentially people going in. That means that you have fewer people that are sick; fewer people that feel they have to go to a hospital. And those numbers are dropping really precipitously. So I think that — we’re just seeing a lot of good signs. Now, a place like New York, New Jersey, and certain parts of Louisiana — Louisiana has been incredible lately when you look at that drop. That drop has really been great. Michigan has had a hard time, but it’s — it’s starting to do well. So, I just think — Illinois is another one. You know, you look at some of the numbers. But everyone is — is dropping, and they’re dropping rather quickly. We don’t have any hotspot that’s developed where, all of a sudden, you say, “Well…” — other than we did have a meatpacking plant or two where, incredibly, we had some — you saw the number was rather incredible. It took place in that plant. People would ask about that. I wonder who owned that company. That was a weird situation. But, generally speaking, it’s been very good. The numbers have been really improving greatly. Please, in the back. The Obama administration gave them a grant of $3.7 million? I’ve been hearing about that. And we’ve instructed that if any grants are going to that area — we’re looking at it, literally, about an hour ago, and also early in the morning. We will end that grant very quickly. But it was granted quite a while ago. They were granted a substantial amount of money. We’re going to look at it and take a look. But I understand it was a number of years ago, right? When did you hear — when did you hear it was — the grant was made? 2015? Who was President then? I wonder. Okay. Yes, ma’am. Yeah. Well, I think it will certainly — it’s going to get us to a point that’s going to be rather beautiful. We think that that will be the point — and it could be they want more, but maybe at a certain point, we’re going to stop. It’s been a tremendous success. It’s been executed flawlessly. SBA has done a very good job. But the banks have done a great job, whether it was Bank of America or Wells Fargo. The community banks have been incredible. I think we had over 4,000 community banks. A lot of people didn’t know you had that many banks. But 4,000 community banks — they gave the money out. It’s so organized, and it’s been such a great program. And so, essentially we’re waiting for $250 billion; the Democrats are refusing to do it. This is money that essentially is going to the workers. It’s going to keep these companies whole — the restaurants and a lot of great companies. And it’s a small amount of money relative to what it represents, because it represents small businesses; it represents them staying in business. And, you know, when you look at it — people don’t know — small businesses represent approximately 50 percent of the power of our business enterprises. It’s not all the big, monster businesses that you read about every day. It’s all of these small businesses when added. It’s something that should be approved by the Democrats. The Republicans want it badly, and the people want it very badly. Sure. Well, they would — no. They would get that, but they have to approve — nobody knew it was going to be this successful. Don’t forget, when you say the money is gone it’s been a tremendous success as a program. People are — they really want it. And some people won’t be able to get their — keep their business open unless they get that money. It’s been a tremendous success. It’s been executed flawlessly. It’s been — I mean, with few exceptions, it’s really been good. And I think the Democrats are going to do it. Look, Nancy Pelosi — she’s away on vacation or something, and she should come back. She should come back and get this done. I don’t know why she’s not coming back. The fact is, she’s not doing her job, and there’s nothing unusual about that for her. Go ahead. So they are thinking about hospitals, and hospitals — Well, hospitals are a good thing. Hospitals have been decimated by this. You know, they’ve given up their business — which is good, because they did the right thing — in order to take care of the COVID-19. And, no, hospitals — I’m with that all the way, if they want to add hospitals. We could also add it into phase four, if we do a phase four. Phase four would be, hopefully, infrastructure. A lot of people are talking about the best thing we could do for this country would be the payroll tax cut that I’ve been suggesting. A lot of Democrats like it, believe it or not. The payroll tax cut. And Art Laffer, who’s tremendous — he’s a tremendous — in fact, he recently got the Presidential Medal of Freedom — economist. He was with Ronald Reagan, and he’s been — he looks like he’s 25 years old, but I think he might be a little bit older than that. He looks so great. But Art Laffer said the single best thing you can do is the payroll tax cut. And I would just about agree with that, and I’d like to see that. I’m not sure that we’re going to get that, but I think that’s something that could be done. It’s simple. It’s really good for both the company that employs these people and for the people that are employed. So we’re going to see whether that happens or not. The payroll — I put it out there — the payroll tax cut would be a tremendous incentive for this country. Steve? Yep. Well, you know, when I listen to the press every night saying we have the most, we don’t have the most in the world — deaths. The most in the world has to be China. It’s a massive country. It’s gone through a tremendous problem with this. A tremendous problem. And they must have the most. So, today, I saw they announced that, essentially, they’re doubling up on the numbers. And that’s only in Wuhan; they’re not talking about outside of Wuhan. So it is what it is, Steve. It is what it is. What a sad — what a sad state of affairs. Well, we’re looking at that. A lot of people are looking at it. It seems to make sense. They talk about a certain kind of bat, but that bat wasn’t in that area. If you can believe this, that’s what they’re down to now, is bats. But that bat is not in that area. That bat wasn’t sold at that wet zone. It wasn’t sold there. That bat is 40 miles away. So a lot of strange things are happening, but there is a lot of investigation going on and we’re going to find out. All I can say is, wherever it came from — it came from China — in whatever form, 184 countries now are suffering because of it. And it’s too bad, isn’t it? And it could have been solved very easily. When it was just starting, it could have been solved really very easily. Yeah. Please. In the back. Yeah. Well, I’m just saying it’s less than 1 percent, and the snafus are very minor. And they’re — and they were fixed. No. Excuse me. No, they were — they were — 80 million payments — — went out over a period of a few days. And they caught certain mistakes that they made, but this is a tiny amount of mistakes. I can tell you mistakes were made in government where wrong countries were signed, okay? Eighty million — this has been a tremendous success. And any mistake that was made, they’ve been caught. And it’s less than 1 percent. That’s a very good percentage. I can tell you, for government — — I mean, how about — how about the Obama website? The Obamacare website, where they spent $5 billion on building a website that you could have built for — for peanuts. Okay. Yeah. Anything — anything that was sent out — it’s like, sometimes you send a check to somebody wrong. Sometimes people are listed, they die, and they get a check. That can happen. You’re talking about — I guess the number is about 80 million people. Yeah, sure. We’ll get that back. Everything we’re going to get back. But it’s a tiny amount. They’ve done a fantastic job. This was done in a matter of a few days. Yeah. Well, I hope we can do rallies. It’s great for the country. It’s great spirit. It’s great for a lot of things. It’s a — for me, it’s a tremendous way of getting the word out. If you look at our success rate, we’ve had tremendous success. We win where we have rallies, including endorsements of candidates. Our success rate is, I think, unparalleled. There’s nothing like it. So I certainly hope we can have rallies. We’ll find out. I don’t like the rallies where we’re sitting like you’re sitting. I mean, you got many reporters outside trying to get into this room. And I come in, I’m looking at this room and I see all this — it loses a lot of flavor. It loses, to me, a lot of flavor. But I hope we’re going to have rallies. I think they’re going to be bigger than ever. I will say this: The rallies that we were having — until we had to stop, with regard to the problem that we had here — the rallies were bigger than they were — I think even substantially bigger. We’d go into the biggest arena and we’d turn away 20-, 30,000 people sometimes. In — in one case, I think they said, in New Jersey, we had 175,000 people show up for an arena that holds 9,000 people. And they showed up. And the reporters even reported that. That was almost shocking to me. But I hope we can resume rallies because I think they’re an important part of politics, actually. Yeah. Well, I think the businesses are going to. And I think now we’ve given the businesses a real jolt. A real positive jolt. They’re able to keep their employees. You know, without the employees — if the employees leave that area, if they leave — you know, who knows where they’re going — or if they get another job maybe someplace else, you’re not going to have the same business. So we gave them money to hold their employees. They’re going to do that. We hope we can do $250 billion more. It’s — it’s absolutely so inexpensive compared to what it represents. And we hope that’s going to happen. But I think — I really think — look, you see it with the stock market. The market was up seven- or eight hundred points today. And if you would have told me that we would have a virus, the likes of which this world has not seen since 1917 — which was the Spanish flu, where anywhere from 75- to 100 million people were killed — and then we’d have a stock market that’s not far below its all-time high — and it’s starting to get a little low. You know, then you had 1,000-point increase and a 1,200-point increase. So now we have a stock market that’s at a point where it’s not very far away from where it was. And we’ve gone through a closed — literally, a closed country. Remember this also — I mean, we have had a closed economy. We had the best economy anywhere in the world by far. We had the best economy we’ve ever had. And remember this: The dollar is very strong. And dollars — strong dollars are overall very good, but it does cause problems. It’s harder to sell outside of the country, et cetera, et cetera. It’s a little harder for manufacturers. Sometimes it’s a lot harder. Everybody wants to invest in our country. Everybody wants — and, you know, we’re paying almost zero in interest. Like, in some cases, zero. We’ve never had that before. People want the safety of our country. But if you would have told me that a market was where it is today — and today we had almost, I guess, more than a 700-point increase, and we’re at a point which is, you know, it’s not what it was, but it’s not that far off — I would have told you that’s got to be an impossibility. The reason that is, is because there is a great pent-up demand. This country is going to come back and it’s going to come back strong. We have to get rid of the virus. We’ve got to open up our country. We’re going to open it up in quadrants. We’re going to open it up in states. Some of the states should get together and they should work on their own borders and everything, because you don’t want to have people pouring through the border of a state that isn’t infected and you have people coming perhaps outside. That’s one of the reasons I was asking Tony, two days ago, about masks. Well, why in Wyoming or Montana would they have to wear masks? Their numbers are very good. The reason is, if somebody comes from outside — you know, which is very severe. But it’s, again — and it’s going to be up to them. It’s a recommendation, but we’ll see. But if you were to tell me how well we’re doing after we went through the worst event of its kind since 1917, it’s pretty amazing. A question? Please. The schools will be open too. Very soon. I think it’s — yeah. It’s a good question. I think the schools are going to be open soon. I think a lot of governors are already talking about schools being opened. And we do have to take care of our seniors, because we’ve learned a lot about this disease. We’ve learned — call it a disease. We’ve learned a lot about this plague. And we have to take care of our seniors. We’re going to take care of a lot of people. But I think the schools are going to be open sooner rather than later. And I understand and I’ve spoken — some governors are already talking about — thinking about getting the schools opened. I have a young boy who goes to school. I’d like to see him go to school. As good as home is, it’s very nice, but we’d like to see him go to school. Please. Well, they’re going to have soon, but they’re very, very, very — what they’ve done is very powerful, in terms of — I think — you know, you can get the same result out of doing a little bit less. What they’ve done to some people is very unfair. In Virginia, I’m going above and beyond what we’re talking about with this horrible plague. They want to take their guns away. Okay? They want to take their guns away. That’s the Second Amendment. That’s Virginia. You have a gov- — governor who really — I guess he should be under siege; he seems not to be. If he were a Republican, he’d be under siege. But he seems to have escaped something that was pretty bad, including what he said about birth, including what he said about many different things. But he wants to take — if you take a look at what’s going on in Virginia, they want to take away Second Amendment rights. And that’s what they want to do. So when you talk about “liberate” or if you talk about a liberation, you could certainly look at Virginia as one. Go ahead. Anybody else? Steve. Well, I don’t want to go — I want to leave — the governors make that decision. We’re watching very closely. If we see something happening bad that we think is wrong, we’re going to come down very strong on that. Very, very strong. The federal government has a lot to say. We have — we have a lot to say — beyond what anyone understands. And we think — and I’ve gotten to know many of the governors, many Democrats too. It’s Republicans and — I knew the Republicans. I knew some of the Democrats, but I got to know a lot of them. I think it’s going to be in the hands of a lot of good people. I think a lot of good people are looking at this and they want to do what’s right, Steve. Well, they’d rather not have me travel. I think I’ve been in the White House, I don’t know, for months. I don’t know what it is, but it’s for months — other than I did leave to — to say goodbye to our beautiful ship. Right? The Comfort. The — as it left Virginia. When it got out of dry dock — it got out of maintenance very early. It was supposed to be there for four weeks; it was there for a few days, literally. We got it up to New York. I mean, they didn’t — they didn’t need it like — well, I wouldn’t say “we hoped.” I’m glad they didn’t need it. They didn’t need it; that was a good thing. They didn’t need the convention center — 2,500 beds or, depending on your definition, 2,900. We ultimately converted it to COVID — the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. The job they did was incredible. But that’s a sign that they’re making progress in New York. If you look at that, you know, we built it. It was ready. It’s there now. It’s ready. We converted it to COVID — it wasn’t supposed to be for that — at the request, frankly, our side. Then, ultimately, we converted it, but there is much less demand. That’s such a good thing. I mean, I’m not complaining about that. I think it’s a great — that means New York is making progress. He’s going to — to Colorado? I think he’s going to the Air Force to make the commencement, right? Oh, I think it’s great. I think it’s great. If he’s going to make the commencement — I hear they’re going to have a very spread-out crowd. They’re going to be — I will say, they are going to be, socially, very good. They’re going to be very far apart. That’ll be very interesting. I think I’m going to watch that one. No, they’re going to be — they’re going to have a good spread, a good distance apart. I spoke to Mike about it. No, I think, making the commencement speech — I’m doing it at West Point, which I look forward to. I did it last year at Air Force, I did it at Annapolis, I did it at the Coast Guard Academy, and I’m doing it at West Point. And I assume they’re — they’ve got it, and I understand they’ll have distancing. They’ll have some big distance, and so it’ll be very different than it ever looked. Do I like the look? No, I don’t. And eventually, next year, they’ll have a commencement which will be like it’s been, like when people like this — our great Admiral, who has done such a great job. When he graduated from where he graduated — me too — we were nice and tight. And that’s going to happen again. I don’t want people to think that this going to be like this forever. But, for a period of time, we’re going to have to keep it that way. That includes baseball games and football games, and other things. But eventually, as this virus goes away, it’s going to be better and better. Director, it’s going to be better and better. And we’re going to get our lives back to the way they were. You know, one thing that bothers me: A couple of restauranteurs called, and they said, I mean, “Sir, I barely made a living with 150 seats. Now, if I do what they want me to do, I’ll be down to 25 seats and I can’t.” I said, “Yeah, but you’re not going to be there forever.” And he didn’t really know that. He thought that they were going to take 150 seats, move it down to 25 to 50 seats, depending on the way he laid it out. I said, “Don’t worry about it. Eventually, you’re going to be back to the scene that you used to have, which was…” Look, I could tell you about — and I’m not going to do it, because I didn’t want to bring it up — but I could tell you about events that took place. And I said things like, “You’ll never do that again” or “You’ll never do this again” or — I don’t even want to mention the events. I don’t want to mention what you’re supposed to be doing because — and you know one of them was so horrible. I said, “A certain industry will be out of business — never happen again.” Two weeks later, it was like nothing ever happened. Hopefully, we get rid of this. We have tremendous talent up here and all over, including governors, including local governments, state governments. I look forward to the time, to me, when we can really normalize. But normalizing is being back to where we were. Yeah, please. Go ahead. So I just made a deal with China where they’re going to put in $250 billion of product. They’re going to be — they’re going to be buying $250- — 50; from 40 to 50 — billion in farm. I want to see what’s happening with China. I want to see how they’re doing on it: Are they fulfilling the deal, the transaction? We have a lot of discussions going on with China. Let me just put it this way: I’m not happy, okay? I’m not happy. And I spoke to them. And this could have been shut down a long time ago. They knew it. And we couldn’t get in. And, in all fairness, World Health couldn’t get in, and that’s why I wish they took a different stance. They took a very pathetic stance and a very weak stance. But they say they couldn’t get in. But, ultimately, they got in; they got in much sooner than anybody, but they didn’t report what was happening. They didn’t report what was happening inside of China. No, I’m not happy with China. Yeah, please. Want to go? And I will say this: I’m very, very satisfied with the decision we made, listening to experts, listening to my gut, the feeling of the Vice President, and really many others. When we put it all together, I’m very — look, if we didn’t do what we did at the time, we could have lost more than 2 million people. I really believe that. I could show you charts of other places that gave it a shot and they’re not doing well. And I would show it to you right now; I don’t want to embarrass anybody. But they gave that a shot. It’s an automatic. I mean, everybody would say, “Let’s do that” — until they sit down and start thinking. And we could have lost more than 2 million people. We could have lost more than 2 million. It could have been much more than that, by the way. We have one that says from 1.6 to 2.2, but it could have really been more than that. But I looked at one in particular — one country in particular that is using the herd mentality, and not working out very well. Now, with all of that being said, we have to get back to work. We’ve — we’ll be crossing lines very soon, in many cases. In some cases, we’re well on the way down. In other cases, we’re right at the top and heading down. We’re heading in the right direction. I saw some numbers from New Jersey, which was having a very tough time. It started — he’s — he’s doing a terrific job, the governor — Phil — Phil Murphy. Starting to get some really good signs. I looked at some of the New York numbers. They’re starting to get — they’ve been devastated, obviously, but some really good things are starting to happen. So, if we would have done something different — first of all, it would have — it would not have been sustainable. You would have had people — they would have been furious at you and me and everybody up here. They — it would not have been sustainable. Because you look at some of the hospitals — as an example, a certain hospital right near where I grew up in Queens — and you had body bags all over the floor of that hospital. You know the one I’m talking about. All over the floor of the hospital. Now, multiply that times 12 or 15, because that’s the kind of numbers you’re talking about — 12 or 15. And it would not have been — it would not have been a lot — there would have been an insurrection. Nobody would have — nobody would have understood that. Whereas, right now, nobody can be blamed, and there is no blame. We’re all in a situation that was caused — that should have been solved long ago. It could have been solved probably very easily — look, it was a tough enemy — but probably very easily if a certain country did what they should have done. And we’re just starting to learn those facts. But what we did was the right thing. What we did was the right thing. With that being said, we want to get back and we want to — we’re going to be opening up states. They’re being opened by very capable people. It’s also point of sale, as they say, in a different business. It’s the point — they’ll be able to look at that — you know, where the testing is taking place. We’re going to help them with the testing. We’ve developed some tremendous tests over the last little while. And we’re going to work with the states and we’re going to help them. But they know every inch of land in their states. I watched the governor of Arkansas, Asa. You saw that. He — I thought he was terrific. I watched the governor of Oklahoma over the weekend being interviewed. He was terrific. They’ve done it a little bit differently. And they’ve done it tight and they’ve done it strong, and they were very prepared, and they have more beds than they needed, and that’s a good thing. But I’ve seen some very, very good things. And I think you’re going to have some very positive events taking place over a very short period of time. And I think, with that, we’ll see you tomorrow. But really, this has been — this has been a situation where a lot of great people have been involved and a lot of great decisions have been made. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Our nation is engaged in a historic battle against the invisible enemy. To win this fight, we have undertaken the greatest national mobilization since World War Two. And that’s exactly what it’s been. We’ve marshaled every instrument of American power, and we’ve unleashed our most potent weapon of all: the courage of the American people. These have been trying times. A cruel virus from a distant land has unfairly claimed thousands of precious American lives. To every citizen who has lost a cherished loved one: Your pain is our pain. We mourn as one national family. Our country has come together. We draw solace from the faith that God has received, and the departed — He has taken the departed into his eternal and loving embrace. They will never be forgotten. Over the last weeks and months, millions of Americans have joined together in a shared national sacrifice to halt the spread of this horrible disease. The Army built field hospitals and sports arenas and convention centers. The Army Corps of Engineers is great. Over 20,000 beds in record time. The Navy sailed hospital ships to our biggest cities. Lifesaving supplies and experimental medicines were rushed to the frontlines as we launched a rapid search for groundbreaking treatments and vaccines. We built the most advanced and robust testing anywhere in the world, and we’ve done more testing than any country anywhere in the world. We suspended dangerous foreign travel. We leveraged our industrial base to produce vast quantities of critical medical gear and enacted a historic 2-trillion-dollar relief package. Through it all, we have seen the heroism of our doctors and nurses like never before — these are our warriors — the bravery of our truck drivers — such bravery — and food suppliers — such incredible bravery, and the determination and drive of our citizens. Through this unified national endeavor, we have made great progress. You could really say incredible progress. Our experts and scientists report that our strategy to slow the spread has saved hundreds of thousands of lives. Models predicted between 1.5 million and 2.2 million U.S. deaths — if there was no mitigation, it could have even been higher than that — and between 100,000 and 240,000 deaths with mitigation. It’s looking like we will come far under even these lowest numbers. Thanks to our all-out military operation and the extraordinary devotion of our people, we believe we will experience far fewer deaths than even the optimistic projection. But there is no such thing as an optimistic projection on death. One person is too many. Our experts say the curve has flattened and the peak in new cases is behind us. Nationwide, more than 850 counties, or nearly 30 percent of our country, have reported no new cases in the last seven days. Because of our early and aggressive action, we have avoided the tragedy of healthcare rationing and deadly shortfalls that have befallen many other nations — nations which, wherever possible, we are helping. In America, no person who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator. We’re making hundreds of thousands of ventilators. We’ve delivered thousands and thousands of ventilators to the states. And actually, it’s been an incredible operation. We started with very little and we ended with a lot. The United States has achieved a significant lower mortality rate than almost all other countries. Based on the latest data, our team of experts now agrees that we can begin the next front in our war, which we’re calling, “Opening Up America Again.” And that’s what we’re doing: We’re opening up our country. And we have to do that. America wants to be open, and Americans want to be open. As I have said for some time now, a national shutdown is not a sustainable long-term solution. To preserve the health of our citizens, we must also preserve the health and functioning of our economy. Over the long haul, you can’t do one without the other. It cannot be done. To keep vital supply chains running, these chains have to be taken care of so delicately. They’re delicate. The balance is delicate. We want to deliver food and medical supply. We must have a working economy. And we want to get it back very, very quickly, and that’s what’s going to happen. I believe it will boom. A prolonged lockdown combined with a forced economic depression would inflict an immense and wide-ranging toll on public health. This includes a sharp rise in drug abuse, alcohol abuse, suicide, heart disease, and many other dimensions of physical and mental wellbeing. Moreover, many patients have put needed medical care on hold, creating entirely new hazards for public health. Our country has suffered. The world has suffered. One hundred and eighty-four other countries have suffered. Therefore, my administration is issuing new federal guidelines that will allow governors to take a phased and deliberate approach to reopening their individual states. I’ve dealt with them now a long time, and we’ve had a great relationship — Democrat, Republican. The relationship has been good. This strategy is based on hard, verifiable data. I want to thank Dr. Birx for her incredible leadership in crafting these guidelines in consultation with scientists, experts, and medical professionals across government. Dr. Birx will explain the guidelines in more detail in a few moments. And Dr. Fauci has been absolutely terrific. We’ve all worked together, and we’ve worked together well. They are interested in the health of our country. And we’re all interested in the viability and making us truly great again. We took the greatest economy in the history of the world, and we closed it in order to win this war. And we’re in the process of winning it now. Our approach outlines three phases in restoring our economic life. We are not opening all at once, but one careful step at a time. And some states will be able to open up sooner than others. Some states are not in the kind of trouble that others are in. Now that we have passed the peak in new cases, we’re starting our life again, we’re starting rejuvenation of our economy again, in a safe and structured and very responsible fashion. Our strategy will continue to protect senior citizens and other vulnerable populations while allowing military and other groups of incredibly talented people to go about their real business and the business that’s supposed to be hard at work at doing. And nobody does it better. Our military is the greatest anywhere in the world, and we’re so thankful for what they’ve done. Healthy Americans will now be able to return to work as conditions on the ground allow. Instead of a blanket shutdown, we will pursue a focus on sheltering the highest-risk individuals. So important. We’re establishing clear scientific, metric, and — benchmarks on testing, new case growth, and hospital capacity that must be met before advancing to each phase. And that’s each phase specifically in the reopening of our country. This is a gradual process. As the caseload in a state continues to go down, restrictions can continue to be eased and come off. Throughout the process, citizens will continue to be called upon to use all of their weapons in this war: vigorous hygiene, teleworking when possible, staying at home if you feel sick, maintaining social distance, sanitizing commonly used surfaces, and being highly conscious of their surroundings. Those are our weapons, and they’re very powerful weapons indeed. Governors will be empowered to tailor an approach that meets the diverse circumstances of their own states. Every state is very different. They’re all beautiful. We love them all. But they’re very, very different. If they need to remain closed, we will allow them to do that. And if they believe it is time to reopen, we will provide them the freedom and guidance to accomplish that task — and very, very quickly — depending on what they want to do. We are also encouraging states to work together to harmonize their regional efforts. We’ll have numerous cases where states have worked and will be working very, very closely together. As we reopen, we know that there will be continued hardships and challenges ahead. Our goal will be to quickly identify and address any outbreaks and put them out rapidly. If the virus returns in the fall, as some scientists think it may possibly, these guidelines will ensure that our country is up and running so that we can likewise put it out quickly. At the heart of our strategy is the vital role of medical research, especially for therapies that will significantly improve outcomes for high-risk patients and reduce the need for urgent care. This will be tremendously valuable in allowing life to eventually return to normal. At least 35 clinical trials are already underway, including antiviral therapies, immune therapies, and blood therapies in the form of convalescent plasma. You’ve all heard about some of these events and some of these therapies. They’ve come a long way. What’s been done in the last four weeks is incredible. We will also continue to expand our testing capacity. We have now completed more than 3.5 million tests — by far the most anywhere in the world. Areas of our country that have been hotspots have done much more testing, on a per capita basis, than South Korea. We’ve done more than South Korea — and South Korea has done a good job, but we’ve done more. We will continue to work with governors to advise them on how to conduct both surveillance and diagnostic testing. We have now distributed over 600,000 Abbott ID NOW point-of-care diagnostic tests. These are tests that are done on site, and, within five minutes, you know the answer: positive or negative. In recent days, we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of tests performed by hospitals and academic institutions, with more than 120,000 tests recently reported in a single day — far more than any country in the world has ever been able to do. And our numbers are actually going up. As these new and better testing solutions come online, we’re seeing this additional capacity reflected in the numbers. For this reason, the number of tests processed in commercial laboratories has dropped from approximately 100,000 to roughly 75,000 tests over the last week. The reason it dropped is because we have so many other tests and we don’t even have to go through the laboratories. But the laboratories have tremendous additional capacity, and states feel free to use that capacity. Some in the media falsely reported this as a bad thing, when, in fact, it is a great thing because it indicates that the states are moving to faster, more local testing solutions, including on-the-spot tests. So this drop in the utilization of commercial laboratories is an affirmation that testing, which is at an all-time high, is growing at a historic rate. In other words, the laboratories are great, but now we have forms of testing that are much quicker, much better, and we don’t have to use the laboratories. But they’re there, and they have a great capacity to do the work. As Dr. Birx has been advising our governors for weeks, we continue to have an excess testing capacity of 1 million tests per week available for use. And our capabilities are growing every single day, especially with the new tests that are coming onto the market rapidly. As we begin a science-based reopening, we must be extra vigilant in blocking the foreign entry of the virus from abroad. Border control, travel restrictions, and other limitations on entry are more important than ever to keep the virus in check and allow Americans to get back to work. The sacrifices our citizens have made in this time of crisis will be remembered, studied, honored, and praised for generations to come. We’re really all working together. Democrat, Republican, conservative, liberal — we’re all working together. This is not about parties; this is about our country. Now the American people are ready to rise to the occasion once again. They are ready to show the world once more that Americans can defeat any challenger. Together, we will rebuild this land that we love, we will reclaim the magnificent destiny that we share, and we will carry our nation forward to new heights of greatness and glory. I would now like to ask Vice President Mike Pence and Dr. Birx to further explain the new guidelines. I want to thank Dr. Birx. I want to thank Dr. Fauci. And I want to thank, really especially, a man who has devoted 24 hours a day to his task force and done such an incredible job — our great Vice President, Mike Pence. Please, Mike. Thank you very much. Please, Tony. Right. I did. I heard from a number of governors that said they’re in very good shape. I also heard — not only from the call, but I heard from some of the governors previous — and I think you’ll have some very good things to report over the next few days about states opening up. And I think, Jon, having to do with your call on — on sports: Depending on the area, depending where we’re talking about, you’re going to have large areas of our country where this has not been or has been totally eradicated. You’ll be able to have those full arenas. Now, with everything being said, a lot of great work has been done on vaccines, but you have a testing process. Therapeutics, likewise — we have a lot of great things happening, therapeutically. That will be a step further. But, in terms of sports, they’ll probably start off — I — as you know, I spoke to the commissioners yesterday — almost, I guess, of every sport. And many of them are going to be starting without the fans. So it’ll be made for television. The good old days, made for television. And it’ll go that way, and then fans will start coming in. Maybe they’ll be separated by two seats. And then ultimately, we want to have packed arenas. When the virus is gone, we’re going to have packed arenas and we’re going to be back to enjoying sports the way they’re supposed to be. And the same thing can be said for restaurants. So, at a certain point in time, when the virus is gone, we’re going to be back to normal. Please, go ahead. Well, they’re going to be in place, to a large extent, and it also depends on the governors, what they want to do. You have very different states. If you look at Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota — that’s a lot different than New York. It’s a lot different than New Jersey. So it’s going to be very dependent on the governor. We’re recommending — as you see in the charts, we’re recommending certain things. They’ll be in place, dependent on what the governor wants to do. If we see something wrong, we will be expressing ourselves very strongly. Please, go ahead. You’re talking about those states that are in great shape already? They will be able to go literally tomorrow, yes — because they’ve met all of the guidelines if you go back — you’re going back 14 days, you’re going back even a month. And they have — the ones that I’m thinking about, the ones that I’ve already spoken to governors about — they’ve met those guidelines, actually, pretty long ago. Well, they’ve been going through it a long time, Jon, and it’s been a tough process for people. You know, I told you this: There’s death and there’s problems in staying at home too. It’s not just, “Isn’t it wonderful to stay at home?” They’re having — they’re suffering. This country wasn’t built on that principle; it was built on an exact opposite principle, actually. And I watched, in one particular state, where they were — they want to get back. They want to get back. They were very strict sanctions that were put on people; that was probably the most strict of all. But, I just think the American people have been incredible. When you look at — Jon, when you look at what they’ve done, when you look at what they’ve been through, when you look at all of the death and all of the problems and all of the sickness, when you look at what’s happened, I just think the American people have been incredible. I think they’re listening. I think they listen to me. They seem to be protesters that like me and respect this opinion. And my opinion is the same as just about all of the governors. They all want to open. Nobody wants to stay shut, but they want to open safely. So do I. But we have large sections of the country right now that can start thinking about opening. There’ll be some mitigation and they’ll keep it going for a period of time — including masks, by the way — in areas that you wouldn’t even think. I asked a question today. I said, “Why would they wear masks in Wyoming or Montana or North Dakota?” And that’s if somebody should come in from an area that isn’t so successful, in terms of what they’ve done. So, that will be a governor’s choice, and we’ll have no problem with it. Right. So, just for the viewers watching this or hearing you ask that question: “Exhausted” is a good thing, not a bad thing. It went quickly. It is so popular. The banks have been incredible, including 4,000 community banks. Four thousand. Most people didn’t know you had that many banks. Four thousand — What they want is people want to keep this going. And we’re doing it to keep the small businesses open and to keep the workers paid. And we have a $250 billion request. The Democrats like it. The Republicans love it. And to be honest, I think it’s going to — something is going to be happening. I hope so, because this is a very popular program. It was really executed flawlessly. The first day, they changed an application a little bit. There was — but when you look at what Bank of America did and what Wells Fargo did, and Citi and a lot of the banks — but when you ask — — when you look at what all of the community banks did, it’s been really incredible. Well, we’re negotiating with Democrats, and they should, frankly, approve it quickly. This is a great thing for our country. It’s a great thing for small business and for the workers. And we’re having a hard time getting them to approve it. I think it’s going to happen. It should happen really unanimously. But they’re trying to get things and we’re not too happy with what they’re trying to get. Please, go ahead. I’d rather not say that, but you’ll be seeing it very soon. I mean, they’ll be — I’d rather have the governor be able to — the governors be able to announce. And they’re very proud of it. They’ve worked hard. Some are in an area that’s less susceptible and some really was done, I think we can say, through talent. They really worked very hard. And, you know, we have some states that got too much credit for what they’ve done. Frankly, I could name you a couple of those too. And I could name you a couple of them. And we have others that haven’t been given credit that have done a phenomenal job. Well, that’s not going to be normal. There’s not going to be a new normal where somebody has been having, for 25 years, 158 seats in a restaurant, and now he’s got 30 or he’s got 60 — because that wouldn’t work. That’s not normal. No. Normal will be if he has the 158 or 68 seats. And that’s going to happen. And it’s going to happen, relatively quickly, we hope. But that’s our normal. Our normal is if you have 100,000 people in an Alabama football game — or 110,000, to be exact — we want 110,000 people there. We want every seat occupied. Normal is not going to be where you have a game with 50,000 people. We’re going to be watching over. We’re going to see that everything is working out smoothly. We’re in very strong communication with the governors. We’re going to be helping with testing. They’re going to be doing the testing. It’s got to be a localized thing, and it really has been since I’ve been involved. Because I came in and the federal government supposed to do testing of parking lots in the middle of a certain state that’s 2,000 miles away. It’s ridiculous. But the testing has been so incredible. Two things: testing and ventilators. Ventilators are really tough. They’re very complex. They’re very expensive. They’re, you know, very sophisticated machines. Some are unbelievably sophisticated. What we built — you saw General Motors yesterday. Thousands are being issued. We have 11 companies building them. We have not had one complaint in the last week and half, which is surge time. Don’t forget, when they were calling, they were calling because in two weeks, in four weeks, in five weeks, they’re going to need ventilators — not because they need them right now. And we were right on our counts. And nobody that wanted a ventilator didn’t get a ventilator. Plus, we have additional, if there is a surge. We hope there’s not going to be a surge at all. But we’re going to be able to build up the stockpiles of states who didn’t have them, who should have had them. And we’re also going to have a big stockpile in the federal government, and we’ll be able to help foreign countries — countries that need help. Because you have comp- — look, you have countries who will never be able to build a ventilator. It’s tough stuff. We’re uniquely talented in the sense that we can do things that nobody else can do. We’ll get right back to you, John. Peter, in the back. Peter. Well, I think — yeah, Peter. I think 29 states are in that ballgame, not open — not for opening, but I think they’ll be able to open relatively soon. I think the remainder are just getting better. Look, New York, New Jersey are having very tough times, and they’ll be there. They’ll be there at some point. But they’re not going to be one of the earlier states; they’re going to be later, obviously. I just spoke with the governor of New Jersey. We just spoke with Mike and a couple of folks. We had a great talk with him. Phil is a terrific guy. He’s working very hard — Democrat — but we get along. He’s working very, very hard. I guess, the fact that he’s right next to this big massive city where everybody is very closely — you know, they’re — they’re together. And New Jersey has been hit unbelievably hard — as hard as — as hard as anybody, in the true sense. But they’re doing a great job in New Jersey. That doesn’t mean, Peter — that doesn’t mean that they’re going to be opening next week. That’s not one that’s going to be. But we have a lot of states that, through location, through luck, and also through a lot of talent — we have states, through a lot of talent, are in a very good position, and they’re getting ready to open and over the next very short period of time. It’s going to be up to the governors. We’re going to work with them, we’re going to help them, but it’s going to be up to the governors. I think they’re going to — I think you’re going to see quite a few states starting to open. And I call it a “beautiful puzzle.” You have 50 pieces, all very different, but when it’s all done, it’s a mosaic. When it’s all done, it’s going to be, I think, a very beautiful picture. And very important is what Dr. Fauci said: It could be that, sometime in the fall, there’ll be some flare-ups. We’re going to be in a great position with everything we’ve done and everything we’ve learned. This was something that nobody ever saw before: such contagion and very, very powerful. People don’t realize because you — we all probably have friends — I have a number of people that were just great people who were just decimated by what happened. Some were — some were — some are dead right now. They’re dead. They went into a hospital. One called me; he said, “I tested positive.” Four days later, he was dead. The following day after he said that, he was unconscious. So this is a tough deal. At the same time, some people got sniffles and they didn’t even realize they had a problem. And they are supposedly immune. We’re going to find out about that. Even that’s a little bit soon because we don’t know how long the immunity lasts. But, Peter, some states are in great shape, and they’re really in great shape to open. And I think you’ll have quite a few states opening soon. And they’re going to be very vigilant, they’re going to be very careful. Go ahead. Sure, we can do that. Either one, please. Tony, did you want to say something? Peter, I just have to say that, as we see a hotspot possibly developing — maybe not — but if we see a hotspot developing, we’ve learned a lot. We’ll be able to suppress it, whack it. We’ll be able to do things that people weren’t even thinking about because nobody has ever gone through this. In 1917, they went through something that was similar. Probably not as contagious, probably more powerful in certain other ways. But we are going to be able to suppress it, we think. And we’re going to watch it very closely. We’re going to — we’re going to be able to watch things very closely. Please. Yeah. Bob, please. And one other thing, because we — we discussed this today with the senators — we had the senators, we have the congressmen and women. There’ll be some areas of our country — wide open plains, wide open spaces — with not that many people, relatively speaking, where you’re not going to have to do that. Senators were saying there is no reason to do that in certain states, in certain areas, where you have the wide open. In other cases, we will be doing that. So we’ll be following it. Largely, that also will be a function of governors. They know their states. So, largely, that’s going to be a function of governors. Yes. Yeah. We do have the capacity, but, you know, you have states without any problem. You have states with few cases, and those few cases have healed. You have states with very little death, relatively speaking. As I said, one is too many, but you have states with very little, and frankly, they’re at a point where they have almost nothing. So this is a much different case than a New York or New Jersey where they’re going through — frankly, they go through hell. And if you look at New York — I’m looking at bed count, because you have to look at bed count, and it’s really dropped. We built the Javits Center with 2,900 beds. And it was — I mean, they built it in four days. They did an incredible job — the Army Corps of Engineers. It was not used very much. We sent the ship — the hospital ship into New York Harbor, and it was not used. Then we went COVID, and it still was not used very much, because the bed count has gone way down — way, way down. Go ahead, please. This is — this is not campaigning. I want to make the country better. I don’t care about campaigning. This is — this is about making our country better. I think this team has been incredible, whether it’s Army Corps of Engineers, whether it’s FEMA. One thing that happened on the call today that I noticed more than anything is Pete Gaynor. So many governors that, “I want to thank you.” Pete Gaynor called up. They had tornadoes in a big part of our country this weekend — this week. And they were all saying that he has been unbelievable. They called one after another. They were thanking us for — that’s FEMA. And they were thanking us. No, I want to heal this country. This — this is a war. We’ve been through a war. We have an invisible, as opposed to a visible, enemy. I think, in many ways, the invisible enemy is much more dangerous, is much tougher. In the G7 today, I went through country after country. We were there. We all get along great. Angela Merkel and Shinzo Abe — Prime Minister of Japan — and all of them. And their — their countries have been devastated by this. Their economies have been devastated by this. A hundred and eighty-four countries all over the world. And we went through one after another. And I was angry because it should have been told to us. It should have been told to us early. It should have been told to us a lot sooner. People knew it was happening, and people didn’t want to talk about it. I don’t know why, but we’re going to get to the bottom of it. But people should have — People — I’m not saying anything. I’m saying people should have told us about this. They should have told the rest of the world too. When I looked at Germany talking today, when I looked at France talking today — the European Union was there represented; that represents a lot of countries — their economies have been devastated, but they’re going to build them back. But we’re going to build this economy back bigger, better, stronger than ever before. You watch. And we have stimulus. And we’re going to do things, whether it’s infrastructure — which we would like to be able to do — our roads, our tunnels, our highways, our bridges. Our bridges need help. You know, a lot of you have reported on our bridges. A lot of bridges are in bad shape. They should have been fixed 25 years ago, and they’re still standing. They have to be fixed. So hopefully we’ll get an infrastructure bill. The good news is the interest rate is close to zero. And zero interest is a good thing when it comes to rebuilding your infrastructure and your country back. Please, in the back. Well, I don’t like to anticipate because you have a couple of states that are in difficulty that have made a lot of progress, by the way, and they’re either here or they’re heading down. But — so I’m not going to go in, in terms of dates, but I think we’re going very quickly now. I really believe. I think we’re going to have a lot of states open relatively soon. We’re beating the date. I set a date of May 1st, and, you know, here we are. And I think you’re going to have some nice surprises over the next few days. And that’ll be before. And that’s big stuff. Some of those states are big. They’re big stuff. Very important states. And it’s going to be added on and on. And as we — look, I don’t want anyone coming back that isn’t in position to come back. The last thing we want is for, let’s say, a New York to come back too soon or a New Jersey to come back to soon. We want them to come back when they’re ready. But they’re really heading in a good direction, and I think it’ll be much faster than people think. I think it’ll be quicker. But it’s got to be safe. Yeah, please. In the back. So, if we didn’t do what we did, we were talking about up to 2.2 million deaths. So that’s five times almost what we lost in the Civil War. Okay? If — if everything happens properly and if we continue to go the way we’re going now, we will be significantly less than the lowest number with mitigation. So we’ll be significantly less. And it’s still a lot of people. One is too many, as I’ve said. One is too many. But we’ll be under the number of 100,000, which was the minimum number projected by the model. And I give — I give everybody up here, I give all of the people that we’ve been — I mean, we — this was a military operation with a lot of private help. If you look at Roche, they were incredible. If you look at Johnson & Johnson now, what they’re doing — they are very far advanced on a vaccine. I think, therapeutically, we have some of these genius company — they’re truly genius companies. I’m seeing them. I’m meeting with the people that run the companies and scientists. And, I mean, what they’re doing is incredible. It’s incredible. It’s a beautiful thing to see. So I think we’re very far advanced, and I think we’re going to be in great shape soon. Yeah, please. Do you mean Washington State or Washington here? Well, that’s going to be up to them. They’re going to have to make that determination. I mean, the governor of Washington was saying that he can’t find cotton because — you know, a swab is a very easy thing to get. And swab is — essentially, it’s a little bit more sophisticated than a Q-tip. And you got to be able to go out and find. You know, the federal government shouldn’t be forced to go and do everything. What we’ve done is incredible. What we’ve done are the — the ones that can’t be done — like, for instance, the ventilators — that can’t be done by anybody but a very powerful, very great manufacturing country, which is what we are and what we’re really getting to be. And I have to tell you, some of these companies, what — the job they’ve done — and we’re going to recognize them pretty soon — the job they’ve done in terms of getting out, in particular, ventilators, because ventilators are so hard. They’re so — I say, and some people say, “Oh, it’s not really as complicated.” Well, it’s like building a car. And you know what? The price is the same too. It’s a very expensive thing for a sophisticated ventilator. It’s very, very tough stuff. Yeah, please. In the back. Yeah, I’ll let you — I’ll let you guys — So, just so you understand — excuse me. Just so you understand, we have tremendous testing capacity. You look at the labs; they’re actually saying, “Send us.” And the reason it’s gone down is because we have so many other tests that, frankly, are easier because you don’t have to send. They’re on site. And now we have the new saliva test that just came out yesterday, which is probably the easiest of them all, when you get right down to it. And I was seeing where Rutgers is involved — great school, great college, great university — and they’re using that. So many people are going to want to use that. But they don’t have to use the labs anymore. The labs are great, highly accurate. Very, very great companies. But they’re down. They have tremendous — as that goes down, you have additional capacity. We have tremendous testing capacity. And to think that a month and a half ago, we had virtually nothing. I just want to conclude: We’re opening up our great country again. It’s going to be over a period of time. We’re working with some really great people — people that have become friends of mine. And I’m including Democrat governors that have really done a good job; Republican governors, most of whom I’ve known that have done a really good job. They’re all working together. We’re all for the — with few exceptions, the relationship has been outstanding. And I want to thank Doctor, Doctor, and Mike. I want to thank the Director. Fantastic job. We’ve all done — by the way, head of the FDA, he has broken hurdles that years ago, even recently, would have taken years. He was — he got one thing done in one day that would have taken two years for somebody else. So I want to thank Dr. Hahn of the FDA. We have incredible people that we’re working with. And we’re going to bring our country back, and it’s going to be bigger and better and stronger than ever before. We have learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot about ourselves. I want to thank everybody. And most importantly, I want to thank the American people. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Please. Very importantly, I’d like to begin by saying that we’ve just reached agreement — the Secretary of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, with the major airlines, all of our great airlines — to participate in a Payroll Support Program. This agreement will fully support airline industry workers, preserve the vital role airlines play in our economy, and protect taxpayers. Our airlines are now in good shape, and they will get over a very tough period of time that was not caused by them. The United States is continuing to make substantial progress in our war against the virus. We grieve at every precious life that has been lost to the invisible enemy, but through the darkness, we can see the rays of light. We see that tunnel. And at the end of that tunnel, we see light. We’re starting to see it. More than ever before, we’ve held our rate, the numbers — everything we’ve done. We’ve been very, very strong on it and very powerful on it. You look at what’s happening in other countries — Spain, Italy, United Kingdom. We’re working with them. We’re trying to help them, especially with ventilators. They’ve been calling a lot. They need ventilators so badly. Fifteen percent of counties within the United States have zero cases, and many counties within the United States have a very small number of cases. Large sections of our country are really looking at other sections and saying, “Wow, that looks bad.” But they don’t have the problem. I salute the American people for following our guidelines on social distancing — even you people. It’s so different looking out there when I look at you. Their devotion, your devotion is saving lives. Today I’m instructing my administration to halt funding of the World Health Organization while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organization’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus. Everybody knows what’s going on there. American taxpayers provide between $400 million and $500 million per year to the WHO. In contrast, China contributes roughly $40 million a year and even less. As the organization’s leading sponsor, the United States has a duty to insist on full accountability. One of the most dangerous and costly decisions from the WHO was its disastrous decision to oppose travel restrictions from China and other nations. They were very much opposed to what we did. Fortunately, I was not convinced and suspended travel from China, saving untold numbers of lives. Thousands and thousands of people would have died. Had other nations likewise suspended travel from China, countless more lives would have been saved. Instead, look at the rest of the world. Look at parts of Europe. Other nations and regions, who followed WHO guidelines and kept their borders open to China, accelerated the pandemic all around the world. Many countries said, “We’re going to listen to the WHO,” and they have problems the likes of which they cannot believe. Nobody can believe. The decision of other major countries to keep travel open was one of the great tragedies and missed opportunities from the early days. The WHO’s attack on travel restrictions put political correctness above lifesaving measures. Travel bans work for the same reason that quarantines work. Pandemics depend on human-to-human transmission. Border control is fundamental to virus control. Since its establishment in 1948, the American people have generously supported the World Health Organization to provide better health outcomes for the world and, most importantly, to help prevent global health crises. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have deep concerns whether America’s generosity has been put to the best use possible. The reality is that the WHO failed to adequately obtain that and share information in a timely and transparent fashion. The world depends on the WHO to work with countries to ensure that accurate information about international health threats is shared in a timely manner, and if it’s not, to independently to tell the world the truth about what is happening. The WHO failed in this basic duty and must be held accountable. It’s time, after all of these decades. The WHO failed to investigate credible reports from sources in Wuhan that conflicted directly with the Chinese government’s official accounts. There was credible information to suspect human-to-human transmission in December 2019, which should have spurred the WHO to investigate, and investigate immediately. Through the middle of January, it parroted and publicly endorsed the idea that there was not human-to-human transmission happening despite reports and clear evidence to the contrary. The delays the WHO experienced in declaring a public health emergency caused valuable time, tremendous amounts of time. More time was lost in the delay it took to get a team of international experts in to examine the outbreak, which we wanted to do, which they should have done. The inability of the WHO to obtain virus samples, to this date, has deprived the scientific community of essential data. New data that emerges across the world on a daily basis points to the unreliability of the initial reports, and the world received all sorts of false information about transmission and mortality. The silence of the WHO on the disappearance of scientific researchers and doctors and on new restrictions on the sharing of research into the origins of COVID-19 in the country of origin is deeply concerning, especially when we put up, by far, the largest amount of money. Not even close. Had the WHO done its job to get medical experts into China to objectively assess the situation on the ground and to call out China’s lack of transparency, the outbreak could have been contained at its source, with very little death — very little death — and certainly very little death by comparison. This would have saved thousands of lives and avoided worldwide economic damage. Instead, the WHO willingly took China’s assurances to face value, and they took it just at face value and defended the actions of the Chinese government, even praising China for its so-called transparency. I don’t think so. The WHO pushed China’s misinformation about the virus, saying it was not communicable and there was no need for travel bans. They told us, when we put on our travel ban — a very strong travel ban — there was no need to do it. “Don’t do it.” They actually fought us. The WHO’s reliance on China’s disclosures likely caused a 20-fold increase in cases worldwide, and it may be much more than that. The WHO has not addressed a single one of these concerns nor provided a serious explanation that acknowledges its own mistakes, of which there were many. America and the world have chosen to rely on the WHO for accurate, timely, and independent information to make important public health recommendations and decisions. If we cannot trust that this is what we will receive from the WHO, our country will be forced to find other ways to work with other nations to achieve public health goals. We’ll have no choice but to do that. Our countries are now experiencing — you look all over the world — tremendous death and economic devastation because those tasked with protecting us by being truthful and transparent failed to do so. It would have been so easy to be truthful. And so much death has been caused by their mistakes. We will continue to engage with the WHO to see if it can make meaningful reforms. For the time being, we will redirect global health and directly work with others. All of the aid that we send will be discussed at very, very powerful lettel [sic] — letters and with very powerful and influential groups and smart groups — medically, politically, and every other way. And we’ll be discussing it with other countries and global health partners: what do we do with all of that money that goes to WHO. And maybe WHO will reform, and maybe they won’t. But we’ll be able to see. As you know, in other countries hit hard by the virus, hospitals have been tragically forced to ration medical care and the use of ventilators. But due to our early and aggressive action, the skill of our healthcare workers, and the resilience of our healthcare system, no hospital in America has been forced to deny any patient access to a ventilator — with all of the talk you’ve heard, where some states wanted 40,000 ventilators. I said, “That doesn’t work,” 40,000. And they ended up with seven or eight thousand, and they had no problem. Forty thousand ventilators for one state is ridiculous. The scariest day of my life was about a month ago when, after a long day of meetings, my team told me that we were going to be needing 130,000 ventilators; that we were short hundreds of thousands of ventilators. This is the system we inherited. I had governors requesting unreasonable sums that the federal government just didn’t have. And you look at the states. The states didn’t have — the states were not prepared. I knew that every person who needed a ventilator and didn’t get one would die. And that’s what we were told: They would die. I saw another country’s doctors having to make decisions on who got a ventilator and who didn’t. And I knew that this would be a defining challenge of the crisis. Those that didn’t get ventilators were said to be in a position only of one alternative — and that was death. Would we be able to prevent Americans from dying because we couldn’t get them ventilators and the ventilators that they needed and they needed immediately? I instructed my team to move Heaven and Earth to make sure that this didn’t happen. We started to smartly ration and distribute the ventilators that we had and that others had. And I got daily updates on the supply we had from requests coming in and people wanting to have updates. We had a great group of people working on it. I instructed my team to use the Defense Production Act. And the Defense Production Act was used very powerfully — more powerfully than anybody would know. In fact, so powerfully that, for the most part, we didn’t have to officially take it out — it was a hammer; it was a very powerful hammer — in order to manufacture as many ventilators as possible. Last year, America manufactured, from a dead start, 30,000 ventilators. And this year, the number will be over 150,000 ventilators. It could be as high as 200,000 — far more than we’ll ever need. So we’ll be able to stockpile. We’ll be able to talk to states about stockpiling. These are high-quality ventilators. We had a choice: We could do inexpensive, less productive ventilators or high-quality. We’ve done a high-quality ventilator. So we should have anywhere from 150- to 200,000 ventilators. In addition to that, we have 10,000 ventilators right now in the federal stockpile ready to move should we need them — we might not — should we need them in New York or New Jersey or in Louisiana or in Illinois or any other state that may need them if we have a surge. I’d like to ask Adam Boehler to come up and just say a few words. He’s done a fantastic job — a young man who worked 24 hours a day on handling this situation. And I’d just like to have — have Adam, wherever he may be, come up and say a few words. Adam, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Fantastic job. I’d shake his hand, but I’m not allowed to. Times have changed, haven’t they? Thank you very much. You did a fantastic job. We’re very proud of you — you and your whole team. Thank you. Today, we are taking further action to maximize our oversupply and available ventilators. This afternoon, I met with the leaders — the top people of many of America’s big, powerful, beautiful, and, you know, very, very important hospitals and hospital associations who join us today. We had a great meeting, learned a lot. And they’ve been going through a lot and they’ve been doing a fantastic job, as everybody here will attest. I’m pleased to announce that my administration is partnering with the hospitals across the country to create an innovative new system called the Dynamic Ventilator Reserve, so that we’re going to have tremendous numbers of ventilators that we’re able to help our states with at a later date if there’s ever a problem like this, which we hope to God will never happen again. It was 1917, 1918. That’s a long time ago. We hope it never happens again. And I’d like to ask Rick Pollack, CEO of American Hospital Association; Sam Hazen, CEO of HCA Healthcare — that’s the largest in the United States; Warner Thomas, CEO of Ochsner Health. And if I could, Mihal- — you — are you here from Cleveland Clinic? Somebody? Good. Thank you. Come on up, folks. Please. Thank you. Say a few words please. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Great job. That was a terrific meeting. And thank you all for being here. Thank you very much. The United States has far more ICU beds per capita than any other nation. We have 34.7 ICU beds per 100,000 people, which is the best there is, compared with roughly 12.5 beds per 100,000 in Italy, 11.6 beds in France, 9.7 beds in Spain. Think of that — 34.7, we have — and 6.6 the UK. There are more than 60,000 ventilators at hospitals and other healthcare facilities that are not in use at this moment. They didn’t need them. We got a lot of them out, and they didn’t need them. And that’s a good thing that they didn’t need them. But a lot of good brainpower was involved in making a lot of fantastic decisions. I want to thank our Vice President for the task force. And I want to thank all members of your task force on having done an incredible job. You really have done an incredible job. Thank you, Mike, very much. Through this new partnership with the hospitals, unused ventilators will voluntarily lend them. Where they have unused ventilators, they will voluntary lend those ventilators to other hospitals and other areas of greater need. Within the last several days, more than 20 of our nation’s largest health systems have already pledged more than 4,000 ventilators should we need them. And I’ve been told that if they need more, there are more there. We’re going to be helping very soon when the supply really starts pouring in, which is — which started, but will really start about less than a month. We’re going to be helping other countries, and they need it very badly. They have no chance without these ventilators. They have to have ventilators. As we continue our medical war against the virus, the FDA has now authorized the first test developed by researchers from Rutgers University that can use saliva from patients. It’s the first one. These tests can be self-administered by patients in healthcare settings, which will reduce exposure for medical workers and save personal protective equipment. Rutgers will begin processing 10,000 tests daily. So, by using saliva — that’s a first — they’ll be able to do things, in terms of speed and ease, that we haven’t been able to do before. So, a lot of great innovation is taking place during this period of time. And that’s innovation. I call it “innovation under pressure.” There’s a big difference. “Innovation under pressure.” Right? Cleveland Clinic knows all about that. As we prepare for the next phase of this great struggle, we must also do everything in our power to restore prosperity for the American worker. There’s tremendous interest and excitement surrounding the administration’s efforts to get the economy roaring once again, and I think it’s going to roar once it gets open. I think it’s going to go up tremendously. You see what’s happening with the stock market already, because a lot of the very smart financial people — the great minds — they’re looking at the stock and they’re saying, “Wow.” Because they really — what they’re really seeing is how we’re doing. If we weren’t doing well, the market wouldn’t be at a level that it is today. They have a lot of confidence that we’re doing the right thing and that our country is going to be open soon and our country is going to be booming. We’ve had requests to participate from the best in the world as we share their enthusiasm to get our country going. So I thank them for wanting to contribute. And we look forward to speaking with many industry leaders, seeking their input on how we can return to what was, until very recently, the greatest economy anywhere in the world — and I can say the greatest economy in the history of the world. There’s never been an economy like we had. Just a little bit more than a month ago, we set every record you could set: more people working than we’ve ever had working before — almost 160 million; the best unemployment numbers we’ve ever had; and the best employment numbers we’ve ever had. Everybody was doing well. Stock market at a record — 142 days it hit a record. And I think we’re going to top those records, okay? And I think we’re going to top them soon, once we get rid of the invisible enemy, which will happen. The plans to reopen the country are close to being finalized, and we will soon be sharing details and new guidelines with everybody. I will be speaking to all 50 governors very shortly. And I will then be authorizing each individual governor, of each individual state, to implement a reopening and a very powerful reopening plan of their state at a time and in a manner as most appropriate. The day will be very close because certain states, as you know, are in much different condition and in a much different place than other states. It’s going to be very, very close. Maybe even before the date of May 1st. So that will be for some states. Actually, there are over 20 that are in extremely good shape. And we think we’re going to be able to get them open fairly quickly, and then others will follow. The federal government will be watching them very closely, and we’ll be there to help. We’ll be there to help in many different ways, as we’ve been — where we built hospital beds at a number that nobody has ever seen before, where we did the ventilators that we just discussed at a level that nobody has ever seen before. Nobody can even believe. Other foreign countries — even powerful countries — can’t believe what we were able to do with ventilators. Big, powerful countries. Big producing countries can’t believe what we were able to do. We will hold the governors accountable. But again, we’re going to be working with them to make sure it works really well. Now, we have a list of people that I’ll be speaking to over the next very short period of time — in many cases, tomorrow. We’re going to have elected officials, and we’ll be submitting that list to you within the next 24 hours. But we have a list of different industries that I’ll be discussing by — meeting by telephone, because we don’t want people traveling right now: the American Farm Bureau Federation — Zippy Duvall, Cisco Systems, Tyson Foods, Perdue Farms, Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Corteva, Tractor Supply Company, Seaboard Corporation, Grimmway Farms, Mountaire Farms, and others in the agricultural business In banking, it’s: Bank of America — Brian Moynihan has been great; JPMorgan Chase, Jamie Dimon; Goldman Sachs; Citigroup; Wells Fargo; U.S. Bancorp; Morgan Stanley, James Gorman; Grand Rapids State Bank; Southern Bancorp — all great institutions with lots to say and lots of good ideas. And if you look at how Paycheck has been working out, the numbers are incredible. And I hope Congress is going to be able to supplement the amount of money going to our workers. I hope they’re able to get that done very quickly because it’s been an incredible success, and many are already spending that money, and the money has been distributed at numbers that nobody believed possible for this short period of time. It was only a week ago. But a lot of money has been distributed already. It’s going to keep our small businesses open. The construction labor workforce: International Union of Operating Engineers, Jim Callahan; North America Building Trades Union, Sean McGarvey. These are a lot of friends of mine. The Laborers’ International Union of North America, Terry O’Sullivan; International Brotherhood of Teamsters, James Hoffa; National Electrical Contractors Association, David Long; Bechtel; Fluor; National Association of Homebuilders; Association of Builders and Contractors; Associated General Contractors; Richard Trumka, AFL-CIO; G.H. Palmer. So these are some of the unions — pretty much almost all of the ones that will be on the line. In defense, we have: Lockheed Martin, Honeywell, Northrop Grumman. These are all the top of each company — CEOs, chairmans, presidents. Raytheon, General Dynamics. Energy — we had a tremendous success recently with energy over the weekend. It finished with tremendous credit going to Russia and Saudi Arabia. And it could be as much as 20 million barrels a day are cut so that we can get rid of some of the tremendous excess oil that’s been produced because of the fact that the virus just knocked out almost 50 percent of the business. It’s been an amazing achievement. Some people say one of the biggest oil deals ever made. Maybe the biggest oil deal ever made, they’re saying. I didn’t know that. But we were involved in getting that done, and it was very important. We’re going to save hundreds of thousands of jobs for our energy industry — Texas and North Dakota, Oklahoma, all of our different energy states. It’s great. So we’re very happy about it. I want to thank everybody. We had the — it’s called OPEC Plus. That’s OPEC Plus, meaning some nations outside of OPEC. And I also want to thank the President of Mexico because he was — he was terrific. He showed great dexterity and flexibility in getting the deal done. I want to thank him very much. On the energy front, we had: Exxon Mobil, Continental Resources, Chevron, Southern Company, Alabama Power, ConocoPhillips, Occidental Petroleum, Kinder Morgan; Hess Corporation, Pearl Group, and a few others. Big ones. Great ones. Financial services, we have: Blackstone, Stephen Schwarzman; Paulson & Company, John Paulson; Citadel, Ken Griffin; Elliott Management, Paul Singer; Vista Equity Partners, Robert Smith; Fidelity Investments, Abigail Johnson; MasterCard; Visa; Chubb; Sequoia; Stephens, Warren Stevens — great; Charles Schwab, Chuck Schwab, who will be here by phone. Food and beverage: National Restaurant Association; McDonald’s; Darden Restaurants; Coca-Cola; Pepsi Cola; Chick-fil-A; Subway; Bloomin’ Brands; Yum! Brands; Papa John’s; Wendy’s; Waffle House; Starbucks; Wolfgang Puck; Thomas Keller; Jean-Georges, my friend Jean-Georges; and Daniele. You know them. From the transportation world: FedEx, Fred Smith; Allegiant; United Airlines, Oscar Munoz; UPS, David Abney; J.B. Hunt; YRC Worldwide; Crowley Maritime — incredible, big, powerful shippers and transportation companies. In telecommunications, we have: the legendary John Malone of Liberty Media; Verizon; T-Mobile; Charter Communications; and Brian Roberts of Comcast. Thank you all very much. Healthcare: New York Presbyterian, Jerry Speyer — a friend of mine; HCA Healthcare, Sam Hazen. Thank you, Sam. Just met with Sam. Ascension Health, CommonSpirit Health, Community Health Systems, Trinity Health, Cardinal Health, McKesson, 3M. Thank you, Mike Roman, for helping us with face masks. It worked out well for everybody. Procter and Gamble, Abbott Laboratories, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Thermo Fisher Scientific — they’ve been helping us incredibly with testing. Gilead Sciences, AbbVie, Regeneron, Biogen, Roche — and Roche has been fantastic on testing, the job they’ve done. I have to call them out. They have really — they have stepped up like very few. Anthem; United Health Group; Aetna; Cigna; and Humana — all the big ones. The tech companies — we have the right ones: Apple, we have Tim Cook; Google, Sundar. Thank you, Sundar; Oracle, Larry Ellison and Safra Catz; Salesforce, Marc Benioff; SAP — SAP, Jen Morgan; Microsoft, Satya — great job he’s done. Thank you, Satya. Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg; IBM; Intel; Qualcomm; Cisco; Advanced Micro Devices; Broadcom. Incredible companies. Companies that no other country will catch, if they’re smart. They have to be smart. But I’ve dealt with a lot of different countries and I will say that no — the respect for Silicon Valley and our tech companies — there’s nobody even close to our tech companies. They can’t catch them. So they try and buy them, but we sort of put an end to a lot of that. In sports — we want to get our sports back, so importantly. These will be some separate calls. Some will be together, by the way — lists — and some will be separate. But we have to get our sports back. I’m tired of watching baseball games that are 14 years old. But I haven’t actually had too much time to watch. I would say maybe I watch one batter and then I get back to work. The NBA — Adam Silver. The Major League Baseball — we miss our base- — well, this is baseball season right here. Rob Manfred, thank you very much. NFL — Roger Goodell. Thank you, Roger. UFC, Dana White. Great Dana White. PGA, Jay Monahan; LPGA, Michael Whan; USDA, Patrick Galbraith. Major League Soccer, Don Garber; WWE, the great Vince McMahon; NASCAR, Lesa Kennedy. Thank you, Lesa. NHL, Gary Bettman; from the New England Patriots, Bob Kraft; Dallas Cowboys, Jerry Jones; Dallas Mavericks, Mark Cuban. And some of the thought leaders that we’re going to have — and there’s some others that we are having; we’re just waiting to hear. But everybody’s saying yes, I must say. John Allison; Heritage Foundation, Kay Coles James — great person. Hoover Institute, Condoleezza Rice — another great person. Art Laffer; Steve Moore; Steve Forbes; Larry Lindsey; Katherine Reynolds; Scott Gottlieb — just spoke with Scott; Jim DeMint — and Jim has been a terrific friend; Bill Haggerty; and Ray Washburne. And religious leaders will be coming on Friday. We’ll be speaking to — and we’re going to have a separate list, but we have tremendous enthusiasm to meet by our great religious leaders. We have incredible people and they want to — they want to be a part. And we’ll be talking about churches and we’ll be talking about opening. And we’ll be talking about things that are very important to a lot of people, including me. We’re going to find out how we’re doing in that regard. So those are the names that we have on our list. They’re the names that are, I think, the best and the smartest, the brightest. And they’re going to give us some ideas. But we’re all set, as I said. The governors are going to be opening up their states. They’re going to declare when — they’re going to know when. Some can open very, very shortly — if not almost immediately. We’ll give a date. But the date is going to be in the very near future. So we’ll get it open. Individual states will — and the governors will be held accountable. If they need things, we’ll help them get those things, but we want them to do their testing. We want them — because they’re equipped to do testing. We’ve created incredible tests and we’ve done more testing than anybody has ever done in the world right now. And we — we had a broken system and now we have a great system. We have a system where other countries are coming to us and saying, “We want to get some of those tests.” I want to thank Abbott, because Abbott came up with the first simpler tests. The first one was rough. If you were — I think it was more of an operation than a test. The first one was — for anybody that took it, it was not easy. But now we have a very simple test with Abbott. Now we have saliva, we have lots of other things that are happening. But we have millions of tests. The governors are responsible. They have to take charge. They have to do a great job. And we’re going to suggest that they check people, through tests or otherwise, coming into their states and they run their states very strong. Eventually, we won’t have to do that. Eventually, this will be gone. But, for a while, we’re going to do it. So they’re going to take charge — at their borders, they’re going to take charge of people coming in. And maybe, to an extent, depending on what they work out with their nearby state, it may be also people leaving. And they’ll be able to do that very shortly. We’ll be announcing a date, but it’ll be very short. And, frankly, it’ll be at a time that will be earlier than the deadline that we imposed — the end of April. So we think that some of the governors will be in really good shape to open up even sooner than that. We’ll speak to them. But we’re all set and we’re counting on the governors to do a great job. Others are going to have to take a longer period of time until they’re in a position to say, “We’re ready to go.” And that’s okay. We understand that. Some of the governors have a very tough situation. But in almost all cases, it’s all starting to come down. We’re very proud of the job everybody has done. And if you look at the numbers — so the minimum, as you — as portrayed — Deborah is here. Dr. Birx has been fantastic. The minimum was 100,000 deaths. And I hope to be substantially under the minimum, meaning we all hope — Mike, right? — we all hope to be substantially under. We did the right thing because, otherwise, it would have been — the projections are 2 million people. The actual projection was 2.2 million people. And if you cut it in half, that would be 1.1 million people. That’s many more. That’s double the Civil War. And if you cut that in half, you’re talking 5- or 600,000 people. That’s what we lost in the Civil War. And that’s cutting it, cutting it, cutting it. And we’re not going to — that would not be acceptable. It would not be acceptable. Nothing is — one life isn’t acceptable, but we weren’t given that option. So I’m confident that these respected people that I just read from the list will give us some great ideas, in addition to what the governors have learned. The governors have learned a lot. I’ve spoken to governors that, at the beginning, it was a contentious relationship, and now it’s a very friendly relationship and a really great relationship. And I’m proud to say that some of them, I think, are friends. In some cases, they’re Democrats, but I think they like me, and I actually like them. I’ll tell you who they are someday. But we’re all getting along and we all want to do the right thing. And I think they’re going to do a great job of leading their individual states. It’ll be a beautiful thing to watch. They’ll go and rely on their mayors and their local town officials. They bring it right down. And Washington shouldn’t be doing that. We can’t be thinking about a Walmart parking lot that’s 2,000 miles away where we’re doing testing, but a governor of a state can, and a mayor can, and right down the line. So it’s going to be — I think it’s going to be a terrific system. And if we’re unhappy with the state, we’re going to let them know we’re unhappy. And if they’re not doing the job and they can’t get the job done, and, for some reason, things are happening that we’re not going to like — like the numbers are heading in a wrong direction — we’ll have to do something that’s very ser- — very serious. We’ll have to, maybe, close them up and start all over again. But I don’t think we’re going to have to do that. I think the governors are going to come out at a time that — and these will be individual dates. And the governors are going to come out at a time when they’re ready. Some can come out very, very shortly. And we look forward to watching that process. So I think it’s going to be a very beautiful process. Our discussions will focus with the people that we’re dealing with on rejuvenating the economy, and always health. Always health. Health and life. Living is number one. But the rejuvenated economy — and I think it’s going to go quickly. We’ll be utilizing our robust testing capacity for the governors. We’ll be giving them what they need, if they don’t have it themselves. We hope, by now, they’ll be able to have it themselves. We were hoping they would have had it themselves early on, but they weren’t. But such great advances have been made. So we’ll be dealing with them on that. And we — they can rely on us very strongly. They’re going to be relying on us, I think, for some help. And we’re there — whether it’s building hospital beds, which I don’t think they’re going to need. You look at Javits Center — a great, great job that the Army Corps of Engineers did; FEMA got involved. We actually ended up sending our medical people. That was not a COVID-19 center, and they asked, “Could you do that?” And then even after we did that, it was not used very much, meaning they didn’t have to use it nearly to the extent that they thought when they conceived it. It wasn’t that they made a mistake; nobody made a mistake. We built it — I’d rather have too much than too little. Err on the side of caution. And it’s really incredible what they did, including the two ships — the two great ships. And I just want to thank a lot of really great people, a lot of great politicians. And, again, we’re going to be announcing the political list tomorrow. And on there, we’re going to have a lot of senators. And we’re going to be having a meeting with the governors probably on Thursday — a meeting by teleconference. And a lot of things will be discussed and some of the details will be discussed. But we want them to do an incredible job of running their states. I think they’ll do an incredible job too. After having gotten to know so many of them, I think each one of them will do an incredible job. And, again, the federal government is there. We have ventilators if they need them. We have beds if they need them. We have hospitals if they need them. We have a testing capacity that’s now second to none. We’re — again, other countries are calling us. Countries that you thought were doing well are calling us for help on testing. So we’re there to help. And, with that, if you have a few questions, we’ll take them. And if not, that would be okay too. Yeah, go ahead please. Jeff? Yeah. Well, we’re going to be dealing with countries and we’re going to be dealing with leaders of different parts of the world. We spend $500 million a year. We have for many years — more, far more, than anybody else, including China. And, I mean, look, I read off a long list of problems that we have. And we’ve had problems with them for years. It doesn’t ma- — we’re looking at a term of 60 to 90 days. We’re doing a very thorough investigation right now as we speak. But this should have been done by previous administrations a long time ago. And when you look at the mistakes that were made — all of the mistakes that were made — it’s just something we have to look at. And it is very China-centric. I told that to President Xi. I said, “The World Health Organization is very China-centric.” Meaning, whatever it is, China was always right. You can’t do that. You can’t do that. Not right. And we spend — and again, it’s not a question of money. But when we’re spending $500 million and China is spending $38 million, $34 million, $40 million — $42 million, in a case. It’s — again, not money, but it’s not right. So we’ll see. This is an evaluation period. But in the meantime, we’re putting a hold on all funds going to World Health. We will be able to take that money and channel it to the areas that most need it. And that’s another way of doing it, but we have not been treated properly. Yeah, please. Yes. On probably Thursday. Well, listen — All right. I don’t want to say that. They’ll listen. They’ll be fine. I think we’re going to have a good relationship. They need the federal government not only for funding — and I’m not saying take it away — but they need it for advice. They’ll need, maybe, equipment that we have. We have a tremendous stockpile that we’re in the process of completing. We’re in a very good position. Again, the cupboard was bare when I got here. Nobody ever thought a thing — in all fairness to previous administrations, nobody ever thought anything like this was going to happen, but it did happen. No, the governors will be very, very respectful of the presidency. Again, this isn’t me; this is the presidency. The presidency has such a great importance, in terms of what we’re doing. And you can talk about Constitution, you can talk about federalism, you can talk about whatever you want, but the best way — I’m talking now from a managerial standpoint — is to let individual governors run individual states and come to us if they have difficulty and we will help them. Yeah, John. Well, I don’t know — look, I don’t know. Hey, John, I don’t know what he said. Nobody knows. The individual governors have testing. The individual governors — we have many forms of testing and new testing is being developed. Our country has to get open, and it will get open, and it’ll get open safely and hopefully quickly — some areas quicker than other areas. But there is tremendous testing and the governors will use whatever testing is necessary. And if they’re not satisfied with their testing, they shouldn’t open. But they’ll use whatever is testing — whatever testing is necessary. Go ahead. Please. Well, we’re doing an investigation. I — I don’t know the gentleman, but I know there have been problems. And it’s been very unfair to the United States — just like the World Trade Organization has been very, very unfair, and now they’re coming into line. When they consider China a developing nation, and because China is a developing nation, they take massive advantage of the United States? Why didn’t other Presidents stop this? I’ve been talking about it from the day I got in, and we’re looking at that very, very strongly. World Trade — W- — so I have a problem with World Health and World Trade, both of them. I’m not sure which is worse, if you want to know the truth, but we’ll figure it out. Okay? Go ahead, please. Well, I did a trade deal with China, where China is supposed to be spending $250 billion in our country. We’re going to be watching very much to see. Now, it got a little bit waylaid by the virus. But, look, I’d love to have a good relationship with China. But if you look — and we made a phenomenal deal. China has paid — because of me, China has paid us tens of billions of dollars over the course of a very short period of time. Billions of — some of that money has been spent to farmers, where they were targeted by China. We cannot let that happen. We can’t let that happen. So we ended up signing a very good trade deal. Now, I want to see if China lives up to it. I know President Xi; I think he will live up to it. If he doesn’t live up to it, that will be okay too because we have very, very good alternatives. Go ahead. So the governors — Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Excuse me. Excuse me. I know — I know your question. You ready? The governors — the governors are supposed to do testing. It’s up to the governors. Go ahead please. Go ahead please. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet. The governors are doing the testing. It’s now not up — and it hasn’t been up — to the federal government. Go ahead. I told them when they put this guy here, it’s nothing but trouble. He’s a showboat. If you keep talking, I’ll leave — — and you can have it out with the rest of these people. If you keep talking, I’m going to leave and you can have it out with them. Just a loudmouth. Go ahead. No. No. I’m not at all. No. The governors are going to be running their individual states. Some of them will say, “No, I can’t open now.” And some of them may last longer than we even would think. Others will say, “I can.” You can go — I don’t want to mention states, but there are numerous states that are in great shape right now. They’re viewing the rest of the country like we don’t even believe this is happening. We have a lot of those states. They’re set to open, practically, now. I mean, they would be open now. We’re going to let them open sooner than the date. We’re going to pick a date. We’re going to get a date that’s good. But it’s going to be very, very soon — sooner than the end of the month. But there are many states out there that are looking at this and they’re reviewing it and they’re saying, “We shouldn’t be even included in this.” You know, there are some that want to open up almost now. Now, if we disagree with it, we’re not going to let them open. We’re not going to let them open. If some governor said — you know, has a lot of problems, a lot of cases, a lot of death, and they want to open early, we’re not going to let it happen. So we’re there to watch. We’re there to help. But we’re also there to be critics. And on testing — very important — we’ve always wanted the states to do the testing. We’re now providing great testing, but the state has to provide the great testing. The state has to provide the ventilators, but they didn’t do that. So we ended up going into the ventilator business, essentially, and we made tens of thousands of ventilators and we solved a big problem for the states. But we want them to do the testing, and we are there to help. Yeah, please. One question. Just one. One question. Go ahead. Go ahead. I’m always respectful of China. I’m respectful of other countries. Why wouldn’t I be respectful of China? In the meantime, China has paid us nothing in your last administration, nothing in any previous administration. They paid us tens of billions of dollars because of what we’ve done. And the trade deal we have, they have to give us $250 billion in purchases. Let’s see if they do that. And they’re also paying us 25 percent on $250 billion in tariffs. So we’re taking in — wait a minute. We’re taking in billions of dollars for China — from China. They never paid us 10 cents. That’s a great thing. Now, if they don’t produce or if we find out bad things, we’re not going to be happy. But right now — and — and we’re doing that. That’s what we’re doing. Look, we have an investigation underway. We’re paying almost $500 million. We have an investigation underway on the World Health Organization. We will find out exactly what went on. And we may be satisfied that it can be remedied and we may be sata- — satisfied that it’s so bad that it can’t be remedied. And if it can’t, we’re going to go a different route. I don’t talk about China’s transparency. Well, you know, if I’m so good to China, how come I was the only person — the only leader of a country that closed our borders tightly against China? And, by the way, when I closed our border, that was long ahead of what anybody — you can ask anybody that was in the room. Twenty-one people. I was the one person that wanted to do it. Deborah can tell you that better than anybody. I was the one person that wanted to do it. You know why? Because I don’t believe everything I hear, and I closed. And if we didn’t close our border early — very early, long before the kind of dates you’re talking about — we would have had thousands and probably hundreds of thousands more death. Please. Please. That’s enough. Thank you. Yes. That’s being worked on very strongly. I would say within two weeks. And it’s being worked on. Deborah, we’re working on that very strongly. Okay, CDC is working, but we’re getting reports on that. Yeah, please, go ahead. No, in the back. Yeah. We may not — but we may not. You know, some countries have and some countries haven’t. I’m watching other countries. I’m studying other countries as they open. I mean, I don’t want to go into names because, for some, it would be a little bit embarrassing. But I’m studying other countries as we go along. So, on that, we have looked at every country that’s opened — some successfully, some okay. No total disaster, but some okay. And some have to go back to the hotspot and fix the hotspot. We think we’re going to do it very successfully. Again, we have one country, but we have lots of different pieces. It’s a puzzle. We have beautiful pieces, beautiful states with capable governors. They know when it’s time to open. And we don’t want to put pressure on anybody. I’m not going to put any pressure on any governor to open. I’m not going to say to Governor Cuomo, “You got to open within seven days.” I want him to take his time, do it right, and then open New York. I’m not putting any pressure on the governors. Some of them don’t need pressure or not pressure. I mean, they’re ready to — they’re ready to go. And that’s a good thing. So we’ll open it up in beautiful, little pieces as it comes along. Please, go ahead. Behind you. Yeah, I mean, I’ve declared myself as king. You know, I heard he said that. But I didn’t — I didn’t see the remarks. But he understands how we helped him. He needed help. We gave him 2,900 hospital beds; he didn’t use them. We gave him a ship; he didn’t use them. And I’m not saying — but I’m saying that’s good, because you know what? That means he didn’t need them. But we said it was too much, but we wanted to err — we said, “Err on the side of caution,” as I said. We said, “Look, we don’t think you need it, but if you do, we’re going to have them built.” And the Army Corps of Engineers did a fantastic job. And the U.S. Navy did a fantastic job, when we moved a ship that was not meant for COVID and we had it redesigned for COVID. But they still didn’t have very many people going in. No, we are — we’ll get along just fine. He understands. We’ll get along just fine. Please. Talk up, please. Louder. Well, that’s going to be up to the governors. The governors are going to want to make sure everything is safe. Now, I think that companies can do testing on a, maybe, weekly basis; you don’t have to do it every day with the same worker, but they can do testing. They can do temperature gauges. They can do a lot of different things. And, you know, we’re only talking about for a period of time. You know, eventually, we want to get back to where we were. We want people actually sitting next to each other in ballgames, eventually. You know, we’re not going to rip out every — every other seat in baseball stadiums and football stadiums. We want to go back to where we were. I want people to understand that. We’re not going to be like the way you are. We have 300 reporters in the back that want to sit. Look at the — look at this, the way this looks. I don’t even like the way it looks, although I have a lot fewer reporters; that’s okay with me. But look at the way this looks. I’ve never seen anything — John, I’ve never seen anything quite like it. But there are a lot of people — we don’t want this. I don’t want this. I don’t want this. Eventually, we’re going back, where restaurants that had 150 seats are going to have 150 seats — not 50 seats, because they can’t make it at 50 seats. But, more importantly, the atmosphere is even better. We have to get used to it. We have to get used to. I don’t know that people are going to be shaking hands as readily. Some will. I said to some of the hospital people today, “So will people be shaking hands again?” And I must say, I was a little surprised most of them said, “Probably,” because there is some kind of a thing to it. I was never a big hand shaker, but when I ran for politics, I said, “I think I better start shaking people’s hands.” Go ahead, John. Well, we’re trying to get it done. The problem is the Democrats want to put all sorts of things. Last time, they put Kennedy Center, and I hated putting Kennedy Center. And I’ve great respect for Kennedy Center, but I hated putting it in the bill because it’s just not appropriate. Right? And — but they wanted it in for whatever reason. They had their own political reason. And, John, I said, “Watch the way that blows up.” And it blew up. I think it blew up in their face. We want to take care of our workers. We’ll worry about other things and other pet projects of Democrats — and also Republicans — later. But it’s been a tremendously successful program. I think you see it. The banks have stepped up. Hundreds of thousands of loan applications approved. Money is going out. It’s been a tremendous program. Really, it’s been — and obviously, it was at a point where we’re almost — you know, we’re almost — the money will be expired and we could use a refill for the workers. We want to be able to make sure that small businesses stay open, John. And I think that’ll happen. Yeah, go ahead. Please. No, I didn’t say all of them by May 1st, but there are 20 states — actually, I was given a number. Twenty-nine states are in very, very good shape. I don’t want to say whether or not the governor spoke with me about that, but we’ve had a very good relationship — Gavin Newsom. And — a very, very good relationship. Yeah, in the back. Go ahead, please. One question. Who cares? If you can’t be here, that’s too bad, you know. Right? Well, I think our farmers are incredible. They’re producing levels of food like — just unbelievable. Our transportation — that’s one of the reasons I have the transportation people on the line tomorrow for the delivery of the food. No, we’re doing phenomenally with the food. And I will say, the stores Kroger and Walmart, which has a lot of the food and — and many of the stores — they seem to be in very good shape, but I haven’t heard that at all. We’re going to be very strong on food supply. Okay, how about one more question? Go ahead, please. Yeah. Well, I’m not easing up. First of all, we’ll have guidelines, even for the states that open. And they’ll be guidelines. But we will not have any problem with that. Your — your question is a very interesting question, but the states that are opening are not states which will have a problem with that. Plus, they will have to adhere to guidelines until a certain point into the future when the enemy is vanquished. No, the reason they don’t have is — is partially, and some of that will stay in effect. Much of it will stay in effect for a period of time. But the reason, also, is that they’re different kinds of states. They have lots of room. They have fewer people and they have lots of room, and that’s one of the primary reasons. I want to thank you all very much. So a lot of positive things are happening. We’re going to have some very strong recommendations for the governors. We’re going to work with the governors. The governors are going to do a good job. And if they don’t do a good job, we’re going to come down on them very hard. We’ll have no other choice. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. And I want to welcome many of our nation’s top hospital CEOs to the White House. It’s an honor to have you. Friends of mine for a long time, in many cases. We’re glad to be joined by Vice President Pence, who’s in the other room — he’ll be coming in a little while; and Seema Verma, who you deal with all the time, Administrator; Jared Kushner; CEO of the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation, Adam Boehler; Rear Admiral John Polowczyk; Army Colonel Pat Work. We appreciate everybody for being here. We’re going to have a big discussion today, having to do with costs and hospitals and obviously how it relates to the hidden enemy. I look forward to discussing our new partnership to establish the Dynamic Ventilator Reserve. As you know, hospitals throughout the country currently have more than 60,000 unused ventilators. It’s — you probably never had so many, have you? Or what do you think? Are you building up or are you going down? Are you going in the right direction? Yeah, slowly. But we’re building thousands of them right now. We’re grateful that, through this initiative, your hospitals are committing to lend unused surplus ventilators to other hospitals if they have an immediate need. And you’ve been doing that. We appreciate it. FEMA and HHS will support this initiative by guaranteeing that, in the unlikely event a lending hospital needs — if there is a big lending need, more ventilators — we will make sure that we have them. We will make sure that you get them. And we’re a great backup for you. We are building literally thousands of ventilators right now, as you know, and they’re — they’re starting to come in. Other countries have also been asking us for ventilators. I don’t know if you’ve been having that situation, but we’re being asked by other countries. I just got off the phone with the President of France. And we are being asked about ventilators from everybody. Everybody. When the virus struck our nation, governors raised fears that people who needed ventilators would not get the ventilators. My administration has used to Defense Production Act. And it’s really had a big impact on companies, and companies wanting to get them done and get them done quickly. We’re preparing ventilator capacity for any and all scenarios. Initiatives like the Dynamic Ventilator Reserve will help us to achieve that goal. We need ventilators, but now we’re pretty well stocked. We really needed them. We took over a country which was — I’ve been saying to a lot of people; they don’t like to write it — but the cupboards were bare in many ways, including ventilators. In addition, under the Defense Production Act, the United States will produce or acquire more than 32,000 ventilators by the end of May. And over — listen to this one — 150,000 ventilators by the end of the year. So we’re going to have more ventilators by the end of the year than we’ve ever even thought possible. And we’ll be helping out some of the states, but we’ll be helping out other countries too, which I think we have — on a humane basis, we have an obligation to do. We’re getting tremendous calls from Italy and France and Spain and a lot of other countries beyond that. By the end of the week, HHS will finish distributing the first $30 billion in direct payments to more than 300,000 hospitals and healthcare providers. If you don’t need it, please let me know and we won’t make the check available to you. I think you people have been having a hard time. From what I’m understanding, you’re having a hard time and I understand that very well. All facilities that accept Medicare payments are receiving funding based on the amount of Medicare fee-for-service payments that you received in 2019. If that makes sense. Is that — is that what you’re looking at? Right? Soon, HHS will distribute additional funds from the remaining $70 billion dollars provided in the CARES Act. A big deal to get that passed. A significant amount of this money will go to the hospitals and hotspots, while a portion of it will reimburse hospitals for the cost of treating uninsured patients and for the coronavirus. So I think that’s pretty much what we’ve been talking about and what you’re looking at. So now, I think what we’ll do is I’d like to — maybe in front of the media, you can go around the table quickly, just introduce yourself and your association, your hospital, or whatever it is — whoever you’re representing. And say a couple of words if you’d like. Please. We’ll start with you, Sam. Thank you very much. I appreciate it, Sam. Please. Good. So you don’t have much of problem, relative to other places? What tests are you using? Some of the Abbott tests too? How do you find the Abbott test? Quick? Fast? But you’re finding — the antibody tests, are you using that too? Right. That’s good. That’s good. How many cases do you have, would you say, in your community? That’s relatively very small. And you’ll keep it that way. Right. Right. Yeah, it’s a great job. You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. Please. So what area do you cover mostly, David? So you’re in a lot of places that don’t have the big hotspots, right? Wow. And so you’re very careful on that. That’s great. Great job, David. Thank you very much. Joseph? I appreciate it very much. Thank you. Good job you’re doing, too. Please. So, Rick, we’re also building a very high-quality ventilator. Because you have to make a decision, and I was told it makes a big difference. The level of quality of a ventilator — what is it? What is the difference? Do you find it makes a big difference? They’re obviously more expensive, more detailed, harder to build. But I hear they are more effective — quite a bit. Is that — do you all consider that to be correct? So we’re building the one that they say is — that, you know, we’re trying to go at a standard that is very high. And you think that’s worth it? It makes a difference. Yeah, if it makes a difference — Very good. Thank you, great job. Please. We got them to him. We got them to him. We sent a lot of ventilators to your state and we’ve been working very well with your governor and with your two senators, too. We also built you a lot of hospitals and hospital beds, in particular. And we just cut back on the final because you didn’t need them, which was great. You didn’t need them. So, you’re seeing a flattening right now, right? Fantastic. Great job. Say hello. Please. Good. Yeah. I spoke to Ken yesterday. We’ll take care of all the situation. You people have really done a fantastic job during this crisis. Please. Good. That’s right. You built a big one, right? That’s very good. That’s fantastic. Yeah. Well, that’s great. And you do have a great governor. Mike has done a great job. And we appreciate it very much. So, we’re going to talk for a couple of minutes. And thank you all very much, media. Thank you. Well, thank you very much, everybody. This is a group of people who, in many cases, became quite famous because they went through a lot having to do with the coronavirus. A tremendous amount. And a lot of them were covered, and we know them from the media. They’ve all got very interesting and very different stories to tell. And I thought what I’d do is I’d go around the room. It’s an honor to have them at the White House. And they really are — they’re very brave. Some were right at the edge; they thought it was over. This is a rough — a rough plague. I call it the “plague.” I call it the “scourge.” I call it whatever you want to call it. It’s rough. It’s bad. And a woman that I’ve really found fascinating, and she’s from a state that’s a great state and a city that’s been hit very hard — really, very, very hard — Detroit. Highly respected. She’s a political person. She doesn’t happen to be a Republican, and that’s okay. When things aren’t going good and you get a little help from a Republican, we’ll take that too. But your story was just a fa- — just a fantastic story. And we’re going to go around the room, each of you. This man was an NFL football player for 10 years, a friend of Tom Brady. And he was hit hard. And you weren’t so strong when you got hit by that. That literally — Yeah. You were — you were not — you were saying you were not — you didn’t feel too powerful. So, if we could, we’ll go around the room. And if we could start with you, Representative. And congratulations. It’s an incredible story. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Right. Well, you were so incredible, as a representative, both in terms of how you got better and what you went through. And your husband sounds like a great gentleman. He went down there and he took care of things, right? That means he loves you. Because some husbands would say, “Egh, let’s not bother.” He will do whatever he has to do, right? So that’s — and that was late in the evening you did that, right? And we had the drugstores stocked with the medicine, and that’s fantastic. Why don’t you — why don’t you say what got you to go late in the night to the drugstore? Oh, I see. The doctor did a good job? Was he a doctor from a hospital or a local doctor? Or — Great. That’s fantastic. That’s fantastic. No kidding. Right. How are they doing? How are they doing? So they took the hydroxy then? Yeah. Right. Right. That’s right. Well, I hear that the governor has gone all out for it, from being totally opposed to it. Now she’s all out for it. So that’s what I’m hearing. So that’s a good thing. I think it’s a good thing. So you might have said, when you started that walk or run, “What the hell do I have to lose?” Right? You know my expression, “What do I have to lose?” Because she was in bad shape. And I understand. Congratulations. It’s an incredible story. And I like Democrats. I especially like this Democrat, though, for just using her beautiful — you have a beautiful presence. And you’re a beautiful couple. And thank you for coming. I have a feeling she’s going to go very much up. She’s a good representative right now, but I have a feeling, politically — do you have any further political ambitions, do you think? I don’t know, I may have to cross party lines. I may have to work with her and cross party lines. Thank you very much. A great honor to have you. Thank you both. Please, tell us your story. That was a bad one. Nobody would take the Diamond Princess. No other country would take it. Nobody wanted it. It was like — you know, they called it a “ghost ship.” Not good. So we took it. Yeah. How many people died, ultimately, on the ship? Eleven people. Incredible. Oh, you did have a precondition. And that’s a big one. So you were together? No six-foot thing, no nothing? You were together and you didn’t catch it? Wow. A study on you? Who needs him? We don’t need him. We need you. That’s incredible. You think maybe you had it before and there’s an immunity, without knowing it? Yeah. So you didn’t see it at all. Wow, that’s fantastic. You know what they call that? A strong woman. Right? No, it’s amazing, to be together like that — — and to not catch it. How did they do? How did they do? How did you feel? Did you feel comfortable? What did you do? Did you cover your head or something? Oh. And that was on a plane? The cargo. And then you had the bus. So that no pleasure either. And these people had it — — a lot of these people. That’s amazing . Do you think it brought — you two, you two — do you think it brought you together, closer? Or — You could see — you could see it, you know? It brings you together. Does that make any sense? And you were very sick at one point, right? How bad was that shortness of breath? Was it — was it noticeable? Really? How about you? You had shortness of breath too, I read. Right? So how bad was that? The shortness. Yeah. Yeah. No, Lyme disease is a big deal. Do you think you still have Lyme disease? Can that be — can you get rid of it? Lyme disease is a thing that people don’t talk about. It is a brutal — And if you have a certain type of blood, you have no chance. Incredible. So you actually had a hard time breathing. Do you think, in retrospect, you were better staying home? You know, because those hospitals are — they can be crowded. So you thought you were going to die. Well, I’m not going to speak for her, but I don’t see her voting for Sleepy Joe Biden. I don’t — I’m not going to ask her that question. But if she votes for Sleepy Joe, I’d be surprised, okay? Anyway, incredible story. It’s such a great story. Thank you. But your wife — We’re going to keep your wife around, right? We’ll keep her around and figure out what’s — — what’s in the veins, right? That’s fantastic. Great. Great stories. Thank you both very much. Please, go ahead. Right. That’s good. Do you know where you caught it? How bad were you? So the — compared — you said you’ve had the flu a number of times. How did you compare this to the flu? So a bigger, better, much worse event for you. And when was it? When was it? When did you find out, officially, that you had it? So, okay. So, what were the words? Did — did that make them treat you better or worse? Or did the — or did they treat you like you had the COVID? Did you ever think you were going to die? So, if it got worse, you would have been in deep trouble. Did you have a problem with your breathing? What — what was it showing, the meter? So, you — you looked okay, but you still felt a shortness of breath. And so when did you get better? That’s a long time, isn’t it? It lasts a long time. But you got better quickly. After the medication. Amazing we can’t get people to officially — you know, if somebody else endorsed that medication, it would be great. Yeah. No, if — by the way, we have tremendous endorsements. But if it were somebody else other than President Trump that put it forward — if some other person put it forward, they’d say, “Oh, let’s go with it.” You know. What do you have to lose? They’ve been taking it for 40 years for malaria, which — by the way, it’s an unbelievable malaria pill. Unbelievable lupus pill. Unbelievable. In fact, the problem we had is people with lupus — Huh? And with — I heard Lyme disease, too. No, it’s an un- — it’s very powerful. But it’s incredible because there’s so many stories like yours. It’s not just — I actually haven’t heard a bad story, if you want to know the truth. You know, normally, you’d hear some good ones, some bad ones, and you’d still give it a shot. I haven’t heard a bad story. So it’s a — it’s pretty amazing, actually. But that’s okay. The word is out. You know, the people get it; these people don’t get it — the media. But the people get it. Anyway — well, that’s a — that’s a great story. So you’re feeling good now? You’re going to conquer the world as a young, handsome guy? How old are you? That’s great. You have a great life ahead of you. Congratulations. Great job. So, I’ve seen this man. This is your doctor? Your doctor you know? To me, they look like a very wealthy couple. Do you agree? I think they’re loaded. You know, they’ve got their own doctor deal going. But that’s okay. That’s good. They took their little ski trip, you know. That didn’t work out too well. What do you do? Good. Good. But your wife showed much worse — had a much harder time? How bad? How bad did you get? And that’s scary, right? You mean it came back? So you almost felt you were better, and then it came back? How long did it take all together? Over a month? That’s incredible. How are you now? Would you say 100 percent? Stay away from me, please. Stay away. Keep her away. How did they all do? How did they all do? It seems to be very important. A lot of people, when they recover, they want to donate blood because, you know, your blood is very good for this, right? According to every study we have, it’s good. And the only question is it for one year or is it for a lifetime? Could be. You know, the measles and things, where it’s for a lifetime, they say. But it’s going to be interesting. We just don’t know because it hasn’t been here long enough. It could be for a lifetime. Well, that’s great. So you donated blood? That’s good. That’s good. That’s fantastic. Congratulations. And you’ll be 100 percent soon, I would imagine? Well, that’s a great story. Thank you very much, both. That’s great. It’s great that it worked out so well. Has anybody — you’re okay. You are as good as — and do you feel you’re as good as you were before this happened? So that’s good. And I think you do, right? I think you’re better. Because she’s a hot political property now. I’m a little surprised they can’t do something with your Lyme disease. The Lyme disease is really terrible. Yeah. Well, but — — I mean, I could even have you see the doctor over here, because White — White House doctor. Ask the White House doctor to come. Seriously. Because Lyme disease can be very, very bad. But it also can be — it also can — is it legal for me to allow her to use the White House doctor? You know what? If it’s not, I will suffer the repercussions. I don’t care. The Democrats might not like that. Very good. Do it. People don’t know about Lyme disease. It’s a very bad — — very bad thing. And it — But it is something, over a period of time, you can treat generally. It also can kill you. Lyme disease — if you — If you have a certain type blood, you get Lyme disease — — it’s over. It’s literally over. I think type O — type O blood is not too good. If you have type O blood, stay out of the woods. Right? You got it at home? But usually it’s from a deer tick, right? So where did the tick come from? So it comes somehow, right? Well, it’s like when I hit a ball into the rough in golf. You know what I say? “Enjoy yourself. I’m not going in there.” That Lyme disease is pretty tough, right? It’s a bad one. I’d like you to see our doctor before you leave, okay? All right. I’m going to just see because sometimes they do have a very, very powerful antibiotic. And — — you know, let’s see if we can help you out. Okay? So this man, as you can possibly tell by look- — he was a great athlete and a great football player. And I — I didn’t know Mark, but he said, “Tom Brady says hello to you.” Tom Brady is a friend of mine and a great guy. And just signed a nice, new big contract, right? With a team that’s supposed to have a lot of potential — Tampa Bay. I figured he picked a team — I’m sure he only picked a team with a lot of potential. And it’s going to be — how do you think Tom Brady is going to do? Right. So Mark spent 10 years in the NFL. And I guess you played with Tom Brady in Michigan, right? Did you notice — did you — could you see at Michigan — because he was picked a little bit late, right? Could you see the greatness in Tom Brady at Michigan or not necessarily? Is that true? No, but you can’t — yeah, that’s hard to see. But you thought he had — you thought he was really a great player in college, right? So you had a guy — Drew Henson, right? Was — — was first string, right? Good memory. See, I have a good memory. They’re always testing my memory. Nobody has a better memory than Trump. Unless I don’t want to remember certain things, which happens a lot too. But you had a quarterback, Drew Henson, who was actually the starter, and he signed with the Yankees — — because he wanted to play baseball. The problem is he couldn’t hit the curveball, right? Couldn’t hit a Major League curveball. But he was a great football player. But he got hurt, Tom Brady took over, and the team became much better. Right? That’s been Tom Brady’s thing, right? Both Drews. They had a Drew, right? They had a Drew — — in the Patriots. That — well, that’s what happened. And that’s exactly what happened. Well, let’s say hello to Tom when you see him, okay? He’s — He’s a great guy. So, you’re a big, strong guy. Ten years in the NFL. What position did you play? Tight end, okay. Wow. You’re a big guy for tight end. That’s very good. That could be. Were you a good catcher? You could hold it pretty good? We’re you a — were you a blocker, more or less, or a receiver? More of a blocker. That’s great. And how big are you? How — what are you, 6’6”? That’s great. You look fantastic. So tell us — so you’re a big, powerful guy, and this little bug knocked the hell out of you, right? Well, I appreciate you being here, Mark. And the American people are watching this, and I — I’m finding it fascinating from football players to state reps, to all of the things that you people do, from a rich couple that wants to go skiing and — — they say, “What the hell.” If you’re going to sue the ski place, don’t bother. But, you know — no, it’s so fascinating to see all different people, different types, different jobs, different everything, all different parts of the country. So tell us what happened, Mark. So that’s the only thing, because you must go back and torture yourself with where did . Why so long, by the way — the 30 days? Right. And your wife really come in and see you and that stuff? Yeah. A very good guy, right? Gregarious, I guess they call it. He wants people. He wants people. That’s good. Go ahead. Right. So you took the hydroxy? And — and that made a big difference? You were — you were pretty bad for a while? So you had the — the azithromycin and — — and the zinc too? Zinc? Yeah. Yeah. Sure. So she never go it? So when she was with you — next to you, you’re driving together. She never go it. Well, maybe she’s — maybe she’s tougher than you, Mark. You ever think — Yeah, that’s pretty — that’s pretty amazing. So the end result is, you think you’re as good as new, right? Oh, really? So that — it was starting to work on your lungs? It — It was there. Because once it gets too far advanced, it’s tough. That’s where the Z-Pak comes in. Yeah. Well, that’s where the Z-Pak comes in, I think. You know, that’s what — Why did you take the hydroxy? Why did you do that? You saw it on television? And they had? They had it? Because we’ve stocked up the hospitals. We’ve got 29 million doses. We stocked up a lot of — I think almost all of the hospitals. That’s good. So you saw it somewhere and you said you’ll take anything right now? That’s great. Well, I want to thank you. That’s great. That’s really a great story to see somebody like you just knocked — knocked cold by the invisible enemy. Right? That was tougher than any football player you ever played, right? And you played against some tough ones. I know you did. Nah, you did a great job. Great job. Anybody can be in the NFL for 10 years — that’s a big tribute. That’s not easy. You know how hard that is, right? Everybody always — I mean, every year, the new ones come along and you just stayed there. Ten years is a long time in the NFL. That’s a great tribute to you as a fighter. I want to thank everybody. This has been incredible. I thought this would be a five-minute meeting, but I found each one of your stories so interesting. And hopefully, the media can play some of these stories because they’re — they’re just — you know, we’re going through something the likes of which, I guess, we’ve never seen. Maybe you go back to 1917, 1918. That was the big plague. That was a big one. And anywhere from, Mike, I guess, 75 to 100 million people died. Which started here — it started in a certain location, but I don’t want to say because I love that location so I’m not going to say it. But it started in this country and actually got brought to Europe. And Europe is where it did its — you know, thousands of people died here. Large numbers. But in Europe, tens of millions of people died. So we gave them no favor when whoever it is went over to Europe, right? No favor. But not since then have we seen anything like this. And we’re winning our battle; we’re winning our war. We’re going to be doing — announcing some very good things in the near future. The American public has been great — you know, far greater than anybody would’ve thought. They had minimum numbers of 100,000 and I think we’re going to beat that, 100,000 deaths. Can you believe that? That was a minimum. And if we didn’t practice what we practiced, and if they — if we did it a different way — because we had a maximum of 2.2 million people. Who knows even if that’s right? But the way I look at it, if you cut in half, and cut it in half again, it’s 500,000 or 600,000. That’s what we lost in the Civil War. That’s not acceptable. So, we couldn’t have done it, you know, to bull through, as we call it. To bull through it. Just, like, treat like a flu. If we did that — so we made the right moves. Now we have to get our country open again. You all know that. But this was great. I thought — so did Mike — I said, “Come on. This will take five minutes.” And it’s taken a lot longer than five minutes and that’s because I found it so interesting. And really great. Mike, do you have something to say? I think so. And I think we’re making a lot of progress on vaccines and we’re making a lot of progress on, maybe, a cure — meaning a pill. Because, I think, right now I’d like to have that more than the vaccine. The vaccine takes a little longer because they have to test it for a period of a year or more. So it’s — it’s something we’re going to come — and — come with. And I really think we’re making — therapeutically, we’re making tremendous, I think, tremendous progress. And we’re going to see whether or not, Mark, whether or not what you did and whether or not what Karen did, and whether or not that that’s a big part of the answer. But I think it’s — could be a part of the answer. Let’s see. It’s — you know, it’s one alternative, but we’re going to have numerous alternatives. There is another one — it just came. You know, the Gilead drug, remdesivir. It just came out. And it didn’t come out — it’s a highly sophisticated — very, very sophisticated treatment that seems to show good promise also. Well, I want to thank you all. Jeff, could I ask you a question? You’re a great reporter and a nice man. Look at you with that mask. That’s good. You look very good. You actually look much better, I think. But what do I know? Am I allowed to take Karen over to see the White House doctors, see if we can help her out a little bit with Lyme disease? Because Lyme disease is a problem and there are some answers. What do you think? Are you guys going to report me for being a horrible human being? For doing something illegal? Did I do something illegal? And then impeach me. Then you’ll impeach me because I tried to help her out with her Lyme disease. Do you think maybe? Because I’d like to do that. What do you think? Should I do it? See, they never like to take chances, but I do. So, we’ll take a chance on it. Okay? Thank you very much. We’re going to have a news conference a little bit later. We’re going to announce the groups of people that are going to be talking to us. We’ve made a lot progress today. You see what’s happening with our bump. Our big bump in the road. And our big bump is a lot less than a lot of people thought it would be because of the American people. They’ve been incredible. So, I just want to thank everybody. We’ll have a news conference in a little while. We’re going to announce the people that we’ll be talking to. And I’m going to be making a decision pretty quickly. And it’s being done in conjunction with governors. We have tremendous support from governors. And what I do is going to be done in conjunction with governors. But we’ll be doing that in a little while, especially in terms of the people. We have a lot of great people in this country that know the different fields and, you know, we have a lot of — a lot of skill is going to be have to be used to get our country back to where it was. And we want to do it quickly, whether it’s restaurants or whether it’s airplane business or whether it’s a lot of other things. We have a lot of businesses. And we have the best people in every — every profession, including medical and including political. We have a political group, too. A lot of great politicians. Well, some are great; some aren’t so great. But I put them on anyway. You know, we want to have a sampling of everybody. So, we have a lot of talent. And I want to thank you all. You folks are fantastic. And just get better. Get that — your job finished up, okay? Get — you’re going to be 100 percent. You look great. And thank you very much. Karen, you and your husband are going to come with me and I’m going to have you sent over to the White House doctor. They have really great doctors. They just wait for me. You know, they say — they’re there for me. But, Mike, too, I think. Are they there for you, too? And if anything should happen, you know, it’s very interesting. I was with somebody not so long ago and he fainted. He had a bad — something happened to him. And it was at certain location. And within like a minute and a half there were seven doctors standing over. They had oxygen. I said, “I’ve never seen anything like it.” So, they are prepared and they are great. And we’re going to take you over and maybe we can find something for you. Okay? We’ll knock out two of them. All right? We’ll knock out two of them. Thank you all very much. We’ll see you in a little while. Thank you. Thank you very much, everyone. My administration will do everything possible to help those communities get back on their feet. We’re speaking with the governors and representatives. FEMA is already on its way, and they got there — as soon as we heard the word, I said, “Get out there.” So FEMA is there, and you know the great job that FEMA does. It’s, really, something very special. So we just want to say: Warmest condolences, and we’re with you all the way. It’s a tough deal. That was a bad, bed level five. That was a bad group. That’s as high as it gets. It was a bad grouping of tornadoes. Something that’s something incredible, the power — the horrible, destructive power. America is continuing to make critical progress in our war against the virus. Over the weekend, the number of daily new infections remained flat nationwide. Flat. Hospitalizations are slowing in hotspots like New York, New Jersey, Michigan, and Louisiana. This is clear evidence that our aggressive strategy to combat the virus is working and that Americans are following the guidelines. It’s been incredible what they’ve done. You looked at the charts, and the charts are — and the models from early on — predictions were 100 [thousand] and 120,000 people look like. If they did well, they were going to unfortunately perish. And we’re going to be, hopefully, way, way below that number. So that will be a sign of people doing things right, but it’s still just a horrible thing all over the world. A hundred and eighty-four countries. This is all a tribute to our wonderful healthcare advisors and experts who have been with us right from the beginning. We appreciate it so much. In fact, Dr. Fauci is here. Maybe I could ask Tony to say a few words before we go any further. Thank you very much. Tony, please. And, by the way, the travel ban, that was earlier. The travel ban was done earlier. And if you look at statistics — I happened to write a couple of them down. If you look at statistics — so, on January 6th — that’s long before the dates you’re talking about — there were — CDC issued a travel notice for Wuhan, China, a notice, before there was even a confirmed case of the virus in the United States. That’s on January 6th. This is all documented. Because we have so much fake news, I like to document things. January 6th, long before the dates we’re talking about, CDC issued travel notice to Wuhan — for Wuhan. On January 11th, we have zero cases in the United States. Zero. We don’t have any cases. So there are no cases reported that we know of. This is January 11th. The CDC issued a level one travel notice health — for health, while there were still no confirmed cases. So we had zero cases. People want me to act. I’m supposed to close down the economy — the greatest economy in the history of the world — and we don’t have one case confirmed in the United States. That’s January 11th. On January 17th, the CDC began implementing public health entry screenings at three major U.S. airports that received the greatest volume of passengers from Wuhan, at my instructions. There was not a single case of the coronavirus in the United States. So on January 17th, there wasn’t a case, and the fake news is saying, “Oh, he didn’t act fast enough.” Well, you remember what happened. Because when I did act, I was criticized by Nancy Pelosi, by Sleepy Joe Biden. I was criticized by everybody. In fact, I was called xenophobic. I was asking Biden to please define that for me. I was called other things by Democrats and some others — not too many others, actually. So that — by the media, definitely. Now, on January 21st — this is long before the time we’re talking, because when Tony is talking, I believe he’s talking about the end of February. On January 21st, okay — still early — there was one case of the virus. At that time, we called it the “Wuhan virus,” right? Wuhan. There was one case in the whole United States. We have one case. This is all documented. It all comes from you. A lot of it comes from you people. On January 21st, the CDC activated an emergency operation center. There was just one case, one person. That’s why that ad was such a phony. There was one person in the United States. You know they used the ad, “There’s only one person…” That statement was made at that time. One case. In the whole United States, one case. I’m supposed to shut down the government? The biggest — the biggest economy in the history of the world. “Shut it down. We have one case.” Seven cases were on January 31st. Now, on January 21st, there was a case. Not one person had died. You heard that, Steve, right? Not one person. So we have this massive country, the United States of America. We have the greatest economy in the world — bigger than China’s, by a lot — right? — because of what we’ve done over the last three and a half years, prior to the virus, but including the virus. So we have the biggest economy, the greatest economy we’ve ever had; the highest employment numbers; the best employment numbers; best unemployment numbers also. The best of everything. So, on January 31st — think of it — not one person has died. Not one. Nobody died. Not one, Jon. I don’t think you’ll find any. This is reported by CDC, confirmed by the news — which doesn’t mean anything to me because they don’t tell the truth. But CDC reported: January 31st, not one person has died. And I issued a travel restriction from China. Think of it. So nobody died, and I issued. You can’t get earlier than that. So we have nobody died, and I said, “China, you can’t come in. I’m sorry.” Because I saw what was going on. It wasn’t so much what I was told; it was that I saw what was going on and I didn’t like it. But I didn’t speak to Tony about it. Didn’t speak to very many people about it. I didn’t like it. So what did I do? Ready? January 31st: In the United States, not one person had died because of the — again, the Wuhan virus. So I issued travel restrictions on that date, even though nobody died, and I got brutalized over it by the press because I was way too early; I shouldn’t have done it. Brutalized by the press. But, you know, sort of — I’ve been brutalized for the last four years. I used to do well before I decided to run for politics. But I guess I’m doing okay because, to the best of my knowledge, I’m the President of the United States, despite the things that are said. So, then, first mandatory quarantine in more than 50 years, we did. First mandatory in 50 years. The same restrictions that the Democrats and the media called “xenophobic.” Now, Joe Biden said, “He’s a racist.” He called me a racist because I said, “We’re shutting down entry from China. We’re shutting it down.” He called me xenophobic, and he called me racist and other things. Since then, on a Friday night, two weeks ago, Joe Biden issued a state- — it wasn’t him; he didn’t write it. I’m sure he doesn’t even know that it was issued. But the people from his campaign — who are smart. The people that write those little PR releases are pretty smart, reasonably good. Not the best, but they’re not bad. But they issued a statement, saying that Joe Biden agrees that the Pres- — that President Trump was right to close it down to China. Now, he did that. Now, he issued it on Friday night. We’ve all heard about that, Jon — Friday nights, right? In fact, his was later Friday night than I ever released mine on Friday night. Okay? So he did — he did it pretty late. I mean, you know, like at 11 o’clock in the evening or something. You know, that’s pretty late. Anyway. So Joe Biden issued — and it’s one of those things. But, in February, Nancy Pelosi said we should come to Chinatown. This is late February. “Come to Chinatown. We think it’s very safe. Come here. Let’s all have the big parade — Chinatown parade.” Probably referring to San Francisco. And that’s it. But I took this action early. And so the story in the New York Times was a total fake. It’s a fake newspaper and they write fake stories. And someday — hopefully in five years, when I’m not here — those papers are all going out of business because nobody is going to want to read them. But now they like them because they write about me. Now, with that, I have a couple of interesting — we have a few clips that we’re just going to put up. We could turn the lights a little bit lower. I think you’ll find them interesting. And then we’ll answer some questions. I’ll ask you some questions because you’re so guilty, but forget it. But most importantly, we’re going to get back onto the reason we’re here, which is the success we’re having. Okay? Please, you could put it on. Thank you. So we could give you hundreds of clips like that from governors — including Democratic or “Democrat,” as I call them, governors, which is actually the correct term. We could give you hundreds of clips just like that. We have them. We didn’t want this to go on too long, but I just want to say it’s — you know, it’s very sad when people write false stories like, in that case, I guess it was gotten mostly from the New York Times, which is a highly — I mean, if you had libel laws, they would have been out of business even before they’ll end up going out of business. So it’s too bad. But we could have given you — you saw the statements. We have hundreds of statements. Hundreds of statements, including from Democrats and Democrat governors. And if you look, they were all saying, “We need ventilators. We need…” You don’t hear “ventilators” anymore. They have all the ventilators they need, which we were right about. We said, “You’re asking for too many. You don’t need that.” And, in all fairness, these two people right here — Dr. Birx, Dr. Fauci — they said, “I don’t think they need that many ventilators.” And I said, “I agree.” At one point — and I’m not knocking New York for this, but they were asking — you remember? — 40,000 ventilators. And that’s more than they have all over the country. And we got them a lot of ventilators, and nobody has complained. We got them, as you know, beautiful — we built hospital rooms all over the country. The governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards, was very nice. He said, “You know what? You don’t have to build a second hospital.” Because good news is happening. They’re not able to fill the beds. They needed two hospitals. We built one; it was perfect. We’re getting — we’re just starting the other. I called him up. I said, “Do you think we should build the second one? I don’t think you’re going to need it.” He said, “Let me get back.” He got back. We didn’t need it. With Governor Cuomo, in all good spirit and faith, he wanted to have the Jacob Javits Center done. And we built 2,900 incredible beds. Incredible. Then we make it — we made it COVID — and — or, to be exactly accurate, COVID-19, and — which was a lot of work. We had to change the ductwork. We had to seal up certain areas. We had to put areas of rooftop things over the beds. We did a lot of work. And we had it — but they never really had too much use for it. And they called also — Mayor de Blasio, rightfully, he called. He said, “Would it be possible to get more medical help?” So, now, not only are we building facilities, we’re — they’re asking us for help because they’re unable to man it. And we got him the help. We got Mayor de Blasio a lot of help. Then, when the Javits Center wasn’t used much — and then, as you know, the Mercy — and we took the Mercy and we took the Comfort, and we made them both — Los Angeles and New York — we made them COVID-adaptable, which was not easy to do. And we didn’t get almost any people sent there. They didn’t need them at the beginning because they didn’t need it for anything but this because there were fewer accidents, fewer motorcycles, fewer everything. And what we did was like an incredible job, but they didn’t need them. It turned out — they were there. We were ready. You know the expression? They have an expression: “Ready, willing, and able.” We were ready, willing, and able. What the Army Corps of Engineers did was a miracle. What — what FEMA did was a miracle. What the doctors did. So I got a call two days ago from the mayor of New York. He said, “Could you help us even more with medical personnel?” And we sent — I think it was 448 doctors, nurses, and respiratory experts. Real experts. And I got a call from the mayor and he said, “I want to tell you: Incredible — these people are incredible.” He said, “They lifted the spirits of the hospital workers from New York City like nothing I’ve ever seen.” He’s — he was unbelievable, what he said. It was really appreciated. And I let them know that. I let the military people — he said, “They went in there so brave, so incredible. They lifted the spirits of everybody.” We did all of this work, but when you read the phony stories, you — nobody — nobody acknowledges this. And it doesn’t have to be acknowledged, from my standpoint, but it does have to be acknowledged from the great work that these doctors, nurses, the Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA — all these people, they’ve done this incredible job. And they shouldn’t be abused because — you take a look at what’s happened. Nobody is asking for ventilators, except outside of our country. Outside of our country, they’re calling me — every country. They’re calling me. So many countries. And I’m going to try and help them because we have thousands of ventilators being built. But nobody is asking for ventilators. Nobody is asking for beds because we built hospitals. I think we built 20,000 beds in a period of a couple of weeks. The job they’ve done is incredible. With all of that being said, I’m getting along very well with governors. And if I wouldn’t, Mike Pence had a call today with the governors and it was like a 10. I said, “How was it?” He said, “It’s a 10.” He was one of my expressions, actually. But he said it was like a 10. And I’m sure you people were probably on the call, although you weren’t supposed to be. But you were sitting in somebody’s office listening to it, because every time we have these — and, you know, and you would know that for weeks those calls have been very good. But there wasn’t a raised voice. There wasn’t even a statement of like, “We think you should do this or that.” I heard it was, like, just a perfect phone call. It might not be reported that way. They’ll say, “I thought that somebody maybe slightly raised…” Didn’t even raise a voice. My only point of saying this, because I want to get back to why we’re here: The press has not treated these incredible people who’ve done such a great job, they haven’t treated them fairly. They’re way off. We were way ahead of schedule. And remember this — because the Times story was a fake — but everything — remember this: Everything we did, I was criticized because I was too early. If I waited longer, it would have been — you would have been critic- — if I went way early, if I went three months earlier, I would have been criticized — you know, criticized for being way too early. So, with all of that being said, we understand it. I think I’ve educated a lot of people as to the press. And I would love to be able to say that we have a very honest press. Honestly, Jon, there’d be nothing I would be more proud of if the press would work — and I don’t mind being criticized, but not when they’re wrong. Not when people have done a great job. Yes. That was done by a group in the office, and it was done just by — we just put some clips together. I could give you — I’ll bet you I have over 100 more clips even better than them. They were just pieced together over the last two hours. That was just — oh, we have far better than that. That’s nothing compared to some of them. Yeah, this was done by Dan and a group of people, and they just put it together in a period of probably less than two hours. Because we’re getting fake news, and I like to have it corrected. They’re saying what a great job we’re doing, and the media — these are the governors of California, governor of New Jersey, governor of New York. Look, in New York, we work very close with Andrew. In New York, ventilators — we’re going to be probably — we didn’t — they didn’t have a problem. We got them tremendous numbers of — thousands, but we got them a tremendous number of ventilator. You don’t hear ventilators are a problem. Beds were going to be a problem. I mean, I’m happy about it. The Javits Center, which is incredible, is almost empty because they don’t need them. That’s good news, not bad news. I’m — you know, I’m not saying, “Gee, I wish more people were there.” I don’t want more people there. We brought in the boat. We brought in the Comfort. And the Comfort was originally not supposed to be for this at all — the coronavirus. It was not supposed to be for that at all. They called, they said, “Could we have it?” That was a number of weeks ago. We said, “We don’t think you need it, but if you need it, we’ll do it.” Then they said, “Could you get the medical personnel to run the Javits Center? Could you get the medical personnel to run the ship?” We said, “If it’s necessary, we will.” And we did. There were military personnel. That’s the ones that Mayor de Blasio was so great to, in terms of his statements. I mean, I really appreciated his statements. He was so impressed with them, and I am too. The level of genius and bravery. They’re great people, the military people. And we pieced that together — I would say it took less than two hours. It was done in house. Steve? I wouldn’t use the word “produced.” All they did was took some clips, and they just ran them for you. And the reason they did is to keep you honest. Now, I don’t think that’s going to work. It’s not going to have any impact. But just think of it: You heard the clips, you heard what I said. They said I acted late on closing down the country. Some people wish we never closed it down. Now, if we didn’t, we would have lost hundreds of thousands of people. You know, interestingly — so I’m — I’m against that. We did the right thing. Everything we did was right. If we would have closed down — Well — well, look, governors should have had ventilators; they chose not to have them. We were able to get them ventilators. You haven’t heard — other than, you know, there was a lot of panic, a lot of screaming, “We want ventilators.” They got the ventilators. You don’t have that anymore. And the surge is supposed to be coming now. And if they do need ventilators, Jon, we’ve got almost 10,000 that are ready to rock. We have people standing with those ventilators right now. If you needed 2,000 in New York, which you don’t, but if you did, we can have them here in less than 24 hours. We’re ready to rock. This was a great — this was a great military — and beyond that — operation. Let’s get back to the regular. Shouldn’t we get back to the regular? We could talk about this, but all I’m doing is this: I could have given you — like, those are four or five clips that we just played for you. I could have given you hundreds of people — I mean, Gavin was on television two days ago with one of your competitors, singing praises. He says, “Look…” You know, the question was asked in a negative way. He said, “Look, I know what you want to say but — want me to say, but he’s been really good. It’s hard for me to say that. In fact, it’s impossible for me to say it.” Gavin Newsom, the governor of California. I have many clips from many — I have some clips from Anthony, that I didn’t want to put up, which were really good. I think Anthony would be the first one to say, when I closed the country to China, when I closed the — the China ban, whatever you want to call it — Anthony said I saved a lot of lives by doing that. I mean, am I correct? I don’t want to put words in Anthony’s mouth, by the way, and I like him. Today, I walk in and I hear I’m going to fire him. I’m not firing — I think he’s a wonderful guy. I retweeted somebody. I don’t know. They said “fire.” It doesn’t matter. Yeah, I notice everything. No, no, that’s somebody’s opinion. All that is is an opinion. No, I was called about that. I said, “I’m not firing him.” In fact, if you ask your friends in the office — in the public relations office, I was immediately called upon that. And I said, “No, I like him. I think he’s terrific.” Because this was a person’s view. Not everybody is happy with Anthony. Not everybody is happy with everybody. But I will tell you, we have done a job, the likes of which nobody has ever done. The mobilization, getting of equipment, all of the things we’ve done — nobody has ever done a job like this. We have 50 governors — and territories, by the way. People don’t ever mention that we have territories. We have 50 governors and territories, and many of those governors are Democrats, and they can’t find anything to complain about. And honestly, many of them didn’t do their jobs. I’ll let you know someday — let’s see what happens — but I may let you know who’s not doing their job. I can tell you the ones that are good, both Republican and Democrat, and the ones who don’t know what they’re doing. But we help some of the ones that don’t know what they’re doing. They should have had their own stockpiles. And now, if they want, we can build them stockpiles of ventilators. The hardest thing is a ventilator, because it’s expensive, it takes a while to get. We got them, and nobody believed we did. Now, many of the governors were asking for far too many. And we said they were asking for far too many. We talked and we said — you said very strongly that they just don’t need that many. You said they don’t need that many beds — Deborah. So that’s it. Steve, go ahead. Yeah, we have been from the beginning. I don’t know what it is exactly. But if I put somebody’s opinion up — you know, I don’t mind controversy. I think controversy is a good thing, not a bad thing. But I want it to be honest controversy. Now, when I got a call — I got a call not very quickly; nobody, you know, saw that as being any big deal — they said, “How are you doing with Dr. Fauci?” I said, “I’m doing great.” And I didn’t talk to Dr. Fauci, even until we just got here. Dr. Fauci asked one of the people if he could get up and speak, and he did. And they totally misinterpreted him. I saw what they did. Here’s the thing. No, no. What he really is saying though: “But how could you have done it?” Look, I just went over stats with you. Right here. Right here. How do you close it up? You have no deaths and no cases on January 11th. Doctor, would you recommend closing the United States of America?” “Oh, this must be terrible. How many cases do we have?” “None.” How many deaths do we have?” “None.” January 17th — go back another week. On January 17th — this is 10 days before I did the — little bit less than 10 days before I did the ban. I did a ban on China. You think that was easy? I then did a ban on Europe. And a lot of people said that was an incredible thing to do, because you look at Spain — and, by the way, we’re doing very well because when you look at all of those flat graphs and you add it all up, the United States is very low, and per capita we’re very low. We’re doing very well. But how do you close up the United States of America? So, on January 6th, no deaths. On January 11th, no deaths. And no — no cases. On January 17th, no cases, no cases, no deaths. I’m supposed to close up the United States of America when I have no cases? I closed down from China. Excuse me, I closed it down from China. And, by the way, some people think I should have waited longer and maybe ridden it out. I disagree with them. Okay? But it was thought of. I mean, that was an alternative. You know, there are a lot of people that would have said, “Let’s ride it out.” Now, I’ll give you the good news. If I would have done that, it would have been, I think, catastrophic because their numbers are, Anthony, 1.6 to 2.2 million people would have died if we tried to do that. And I did this last time: Cut it in half. Don’t say 2.2 million. Cut it in more than half. Say a million people died — well, that’s much more than the Civil War. Cut it in half. Take the million and cut it in half; that’s 500,000 people would have died. Now, that number we would have reached. Okay? That would have been easy to reach if we did nothing. So we did the right thing, and our timing was very good. But here’s the one thing — and you have to say this — when you ask me, “Why didn’t you do this?” — how come when I did the ban on China and some very, very — instituted some very tough things, how come Nancy Pelosi, a month later, is in Chinatown, saying, “Let’s all march. This is not going to happen”? How come we have many of the experts from CNN and many other networks — if you call CNN a network; I don’t, personally. But we have CNN, we have many other places, and they’re all saying, “He doesn’t need to do it. He doesn’t need to do it.” All I’m saying is this: How do you close down the greatest economy in the history of the world when, on January 17th, you have no cases and no death; when on January 21st, you have one case and no death? One case. Think of it. Now, we’re supposed to close down the country? But here’s what happened: When, on January 31st, I instituted the ban, Joe Biden went crazy. He said, “You don’t need the ban. You…” He didn’t go crazy. Like, he has — he didn’t even know what the hell the ban was. But he — so he didn’t go crazy. But he did say — He did call me xenophobic. Wait a minute. He called me xenophobic; he called me a racist because — he has since apologized and he said I did the right thing. So when you say, “Why didn’t you do this?” Every Democrat thought I made a mistake when I did it. I saved tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of lives, by doing that. You’re so — you’re so — You’re so disgraceful. It’s so disgraceful the way you say that. Let me just — listen. I just went over it. I just went over it. Nobody thought we should do it. And when I did it — You know what we did? You know what we did? What do you do — what do you do when you have no case in the whole United States when you — Excuse me. You reported it: zero cases, zero deaths on January 17th. January. I said in January. On January 30th — A lot. A lot. And, in fact, we’ll give you a list — what we did. In fact, part of it was up there. We did a lot. Look. Look, you know you’re a fake. You know that. Your whole network — the way you cover it — is fake. And most of you — and not all of you — but the people are wise to you. That’s why you have a lower — a lower approval rating than you’ve ever had before, times probably three. And when you ask me that questions — Let me ask you this: Why didn’t Biden — why did Biden apologize? Why did he write a letter of apology? Why did the Democrats think that I acted too quickly? You know why? Because they really thought that I acted too quickly. We have done a great job. Now, I could’ve — I could’ve kept it open. And I could’ve done what some countries are doing. They’re getting beat up pretty badly. I could have kept it open. I thought of keeping it open because nobody has ever heard of closing down a country, let alone the United States of America. But if I would have done that, we would have had hundreds of thousands of people that would right now be dead. We’ve done this right. And we really — we really have done this right. The problem is the press doesn’t cover it the way it should be. Go ahead. One more question. Steve, go ahead. Well, I have the ultimate authority, but we’re going to get into that in a minute. We’re going to just finish this up. We’re going to tell you about other things that we’ve done right. But I will say this: Had we said, “Let’s just keep going and let’s not do a closing” — whether it’s 2.2 that they, at one point, predicted as an outside or 1.6 at a lower number; you cut it all the way down to 6- or 7- or 800,000; take just a fraction of the number that could have happened, it literally would have been more than the Civil War. It would have been a disaster. So, the minimum number was 100,000. And I think — I feel pretty good that we’re going to be substantially below, Anthony, the 100,000. And I hope we will. All right. So, today, the Department of Health and Human Services is announcing five new contracts to procure large numbers of additional ventilators under the Defense Production Act, which we used a lot, by the way — which you didn’t like to talk about — in addition to the 1,300 we received today. We received, today, 1,300 additional ventilators. Now, we’re probably not going to need them, but we can add that to our stockpile, which is very big, and we can move it around should the surge take place and should it be a very substantial surge. We’re ready to — we’re ready to rock. The contracts are with General Electric, Hillrom, Medtronic, ResMed, and Vyaire, combined with the DPA contracts that we announced last week with General Motors and Philips and two other contracts with Hamilton and ZOLL. We’re adding 6,190 ventilators to the Strategic National Stockpile, of which we have a lot already — thousands — close to 10,000. But this will be added by May 8th, another 29,000 by the end of May. And more than 120,000 total we will have by the end of the year. Now, we’re going to help other countries. We’re going to help states if they need it. We may help some states’ stockpile. You know, they’re supposed to buy their own stockpile. They have state stockpiles. They’re supposed to be using that. And unfortunately, most of the states weren’t there. And a lot of people didn’t want to talk about it, but they weren’t there. We will talk about it at the right time, if you want to. I — at this point, I’m more focused on getting past this nightmare of a epidemic or a pandemic — anything you want to call it. We got to get past it. No one who has needed a ventilator has not gotten a ventilator. Think of that. You know, you heard all about ventilators, ventilators. “We need ventilators.” Because they didn’t have them. Because the states should have had them. No one who has needed a ventilator has not gotten a ventilator. No one who has needed a hospital bed has been denied a hospital bed. That’s not even really our responsibility. Now, if we can help, we’re going to do it. But that’s where the Army Corps of Engineers did such a great job. We built over 20,000 beds. In fact, we built thousands more than we’ve actually needed to be safe. We wanted to be safe and we really — they rose to this incredible occasion. I mean, we built more beds than we thought. We thought, in Louisiana, we were going heavy. And again, when I called the governor, I said, “Maybe we shouldn’t build that second hospital, because we don’t want to build it if you don’t need it.” He called back, he said, “I don’t think we’re going to need it.” They had 1,000 rooms, 1,000 beds, and they used a lot of them, but they didn’t need the other one so we stopped it because we don’t want to waste. But we’re prepared to build thousands more should we need it. I don’t think we’re going to need it because it looks like we’re plateauing and maybe even, in many cases, coming down. In addition, we’ve ordered a total of 60 mobile decontamidation [sic] — -contamination systems. So the decontamination system from Battelle, in Ohio, is an incredible thing because it takes the masks, and up to 20 times you can decontaminate a mask. And I’ve been asking from the beginning: “Why can’t we sterilize and sanitize these masks?” And it turned out we can. And there was a great company in Ohio, they sent us some great equipment, and they’re doing that now. And now we’re going to have more than 33 million N95 masks per week will be cleaned, decontaminated, and it’ll be great. It’s something that, frankly, I think people should have thought of a long time ago. Five more flights landed today as part of the Project Air Bridge — our massive air lift operation to bring personal protective equipment into the United States, which has now delivered nearly half a million N95 masks, 370 million gloves, 25 million surgical masks, and 4.9 million gowns. So, we have millions of gowns, gloves, masks, all surgical equipment coming in should the states need it. Now, the states — the states are supposed to be buying their own stuff. But should they need it, we are ready to give them, because we’re building up our stockpile again like crazy. Remember, I — and you saw the stories. I inherited — this administration — Mike, myself, the whole administration, we inherited a stockpile where the cupboards were bare. There was nothing. And I say it and I’ll say it again: Just like we didn’t have ammunition, we didn’t have medical supplies, we didn’t have ventilators, we didn’t have a lot of things that should have been had. And you can read your own stories on that because you know what happened: They didn’t want to spend the money. But we did. To date, we’ve facilitated the supply of more than 38 million N95 masks nationwide. This week, we’ll be sending 2 million N95 masks to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Vice President will go into more detail. He’s got great detail on that, and I think it’s a pretty amazing story. We have a lot of masks already in stock, and we have more coming. We’re further expanding hospital surge capacity in key areas of the opening, and we have a portion of certain VA hospitals and non-veteran coronavirus patients, including at the East Orange, New Jersey Medical Center, as well as facilities in Manhattan and Brooklyn. They’re ready. They’re able. They’re beautiful. Hopefully, we won’t need too many of them because, frankly, we built everything that the governors wanted. And in many cases, it’s too much. We told them it was too much, but we wanted to err on the side of caution. The United States has now conducted nearly 3 million tests for the virus. Three million — the most of any nation. We are performing approximately 150,000 tests every single day and our rate of testing is especially high in areas hardest hit by the virus, if you look. And that’s really — and it has hit some areas — the virus — very, very hard. For example, per capita testing in New York is higher than the rest of the world. The NIH, CDC, and FDA are also currently validating several antibody tests that will allow us to determine whether someone has already had the virus and potentially become immune to infection. We’re looking at that. The antibody tests are going to be very interesting, over the next short while. A lot of things are being developed, as we speak. In the race to develop effective treatments, the drug company Gilead announced that its drug, remdesivir, has shown promising results — very promising — in compassionate use settings. In addition, the FDA has just granted emergency use authorization for a device that removes certain proteins from the bloodstream, possibly preventing a patient’s immune system from overreacting to the virus and damaging vital organs, which is a big problem. Furthermore, over the last seven days, my administration has deployed roughly 28 million doses of hydroxychloroquine from our National Stockpile. We have millions of doses that we bought and many people are using it all over the country. And just recently, a friend of mine told me he got better because of the use of that — that drug. So, who knows? And you combine it with Z-Pak, you combine it with Zinc — depending on your doctor’s recommendation. And it’s having some very good results, I’ll tell you. I think if anybody recommended it other than me, it would be used all over the place, to be honest with you. I think the fact that I recommended it, I probably set it back a lot. But it’s a lot of good things that are happening with it. A lot of good tests. Scientists are also pursuing a blood therapy known as convalescent plasma. Convalescent plasma. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of recovered patients to treat those who are sick. And this is something that actually is a very old procedure, but it’s done in a very modern way. During this difficult time, we’re also working to ensure that the 2020 Census is completed safely and accuracy. We may be asking for an extension because, obviously, they can’t be doing very much right now. They wouldn’t even be allowed to do it. So, the Census, we’re going to be asking for a delay — a major delay, I think. How can you possibly be knocking on doors for a long period of time now? The Census Bureau recently made the decision to temporarily suspend its field operation data-collection activities to help stop the spread. In addition, while millions of Americans continue to complete their questionnaire online, the Census Bureau has asked Congress for a 120 extension. I don’t know that you even have to ask them. This is called “an act of God.” This is called a — a situation that has to be — they have to give in. I think 120 days isn’t nearly enough. My administration is also taking bold action to help American workers. On Friday, Americans began receiving the cash payments authorized by a historic $2 trillion relief bill. By the end of the week, nearly 80 million Americans will receive a total of $147 billion. And from what the Secretary of the Treasury tells me, that’s very much on time and going very nicely. He’ll be speaking in a moment. And payments — these payments go directly into the banks and the bank accounts of these people. Millions of additional payments will follow. The typical family of four will receive $3,400. That’s for a family of four. That’s something. Additionally, through our Paycheck Protection Program –which is a tremendous success, and they should extend it and increase it. This has been a tremendous success. So successful that the banks are taking a little bit longer to distribute the money, but it’s going rapidly. We’ve now processed over $200 billion in loans to help small businesses retain their workers. Now we urgently need lawmakers to set aside the partisan agendas and to replenish this program with new funds because it’s really something that has been an incredible success. And they need more money to keep it going to take care of these business and keep them — keep them open. I want to thank the many governors, health professionals, scientists, and business leaders for their incredible hard work and input over the past month, and even long beyond a month, Mike, I would say. You know, we’ve been working together with a lot of for, it seems like, forever. I’ve been having many discussions with my team and top experts, and we’re very close to completing a plan to open our country, hopefully even ahead of schedule. And that’s so important. We will soon finalize new and very important guidelines to give governors the information they need to start safely opening their states. My administration’s plan and corresponding guidelines will give the American people the confidence they need to begin returning to normal life. That’s what we want. We want to have our country open. We want to return to normal life. Our country is going to be open, and it’s going to be successfully opened. And we’ll be explaining over a very short number of days exactly what is going to be. We’ve also, as you probably heard, developed a committee. We’re actually calling it a number of committees with the most prominent people in the country, the most successful people in the various fields. And we’ll be announcing them tomorrow. This weekend, the United States also helped facilitate an unprecedented agreement among the 23 nations of OPEC Plus — that’s OPEC plus additional energy-producing nations — representing many of the world’s largest oil-producing countries to stabilize oil markets. And we have, in fact — and I think you’ve seen a big stabilization over the last couple of days. Together, countries around the world will cut oil production by approximately 20 million barrels. People are saying 10 million, but we think that the number that they’ll actually hit is going to be closer to 20 million barrels a day. And that will help a lot with saving jobs all over Texas and Oklahoma and North Dakota and many of other — other of our big energy states. This historic action will help nearly 11 million American workers who are supported by the U.S. oil and gas industry. It’s a very monumental agreement. I want to thank Saudi Arabia and the King of Saudi Arabia, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia — both. I want to thank President Putin of Russia. And I want to thank a very good friend of mine — a man who’s become a friend of mine: The President of Mexico showed great flexibility. President López Obrador. He showed great flexibility and — and tremendous intelligence doing what he did. It was not that easy for him. And I want to thank Mexico and the president. This is a very historic deal. Very historic. So we’ll see how it all goes. In this time and challenge — and we are certainly in a time probably like we haven’t been in many, many decades — we are strengthened and sustained by the bonds of love and loyalty that unite all Americans. I’m so proud of the American people. Everywhere you look, you see the patriotism of our people shining through and the courage of our doctors and nurses on the frontlines, and the dedication of our food supply workers, and in the commitment of every citizen to achieving victory over the virus. That’s what’s going to happen. It’s going to happen sooner than people think. And we’re going to be smart about it. Very, very smart about it. We’re going to be safe about it. We’re going to be listening also to the great doctors and medical professionals. Together, we’re beating back the invisible enemy and we’re paving the way for great resurgence. Really, a great resurgence for American prosperity. Our country wants to go back. They want to go back to work. They’re going to go back safely, and that’s what we want. I’d like now to ask Vice President Pence to say a few words, followed by Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx. I think before we — before we do this — because I know there’s an emergency where they want Steve to come. So what I’ll do is I’ll ask Steve to come up — Secretary of the Treasury. You can talk a little bit and then maybe take a couple of questions about what’s happening. Tell them the success we’re having. Thank you very much. You have any questions for Steve, please? Negotiation. We have to do — everything has to be safe. We want safe. Well, I’ll be doing that over the next few days because we’ll probably be making a statement about that and exactly what it looks like. I know what that looks like, but I also want to get the advice, in a sense. We have some of the — the biggest from every business on this council. We’re actually setting up a number of different councils or committees, I guess you could call them. And we have a lot of smart people. I think that they will give us some also good advice. But, no, we want to be very, very safe. At the same time, we got to get our country open. I do think so. Eventually, they will. Yeah. I think eventually they will do that. And I think we’re going to — boom — I think we’re going to — I think it’s going to go quickly. Our people want to get back to work, and I think there’s a pent-up demand like there hasn’t been in a long time. And that’s why — and that’s why you see the stock market — I mean, to think that the stock market is at the level it is right now, with all that this world and this country has gone. And look at the European Union, how badly decimated they’ve been. Look at other countries. Look at China, by the way. I’ve seen the numbers. Look at China. Look at how these countries have been just decimated by this. And to think that the stock market is at this tremendously high number. Not that much — you know, it was looking a little bleak for a while, but it — it hit a certain point and then started going up. I think that’s a great tribute to the fact that there’s a demand. Yeah. Numerous provisions. We’ll give you a legal brief if you want. Well, I think everybody wants to open. I mean, I guess, you know, that could happen, but I don’t think that would happen. Go ahead please. That’s because I let that happen because I would have preferred that. I let that happen. But if I wanted to, I could have closed it up. But I let that happen and I like the way they’ve done it. And the seven that remained really in sort of a semi-lockdown — if you look at those states, they’ve really done a very good job. They’re very much different from a New York or from other places where they’ve been hit very hard. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Well, they can decide, but — No, not at all. Let me just tell you — very simple. I’m going to put it very simply: The President of the United States has the authority to do what the President has the authority to do, which is very powerful. The President of the United States calls the shots. If we weren’t here for the states, you would have had a problem in this country like you’ve never seen before. We were here to back them up. And we’re backing — and we’ve more than backed them up. We did a job that nobody ever thought was possible. It’s a decision for the President of the United States. Now, with that being said, we’re going to work with the states because it’s very important. You have local governments, they’re pinpointed. It’s really — you talk about — it’s like a microchip. They are pinpointed. We have local government that hopefully will do a good job. And if they don’t do a good job, I’d step in so fast. But no, they can’t do anything without the approval of the President of the United States. Go ahead, please. Well, if some states refuse to open, I would be — I would like to see that person run for election. They’re going to open. They’re going to all open. I think that’s something that’s not going to happen. They want to open. They have to open. They have to get open. Every one of those states, the people want to go and they want to — Now, some will be — are in a different situation. You have — I won’t name states now, but I will over the next two or three days. I’m going to be very specific. But you have some states where this is not the kind of a problem than it is in New York or Louisiana or Michigan or other places that got hit very hard. Illinois got hit very hard. But all states want to open and they want to open as soon as possible. But they want to open safely and so do I. Yeah, please. No, France got hit very hard. France got hit very hard. And again, he has to do what he has to do. He’s a friend of mine. But France — Spain has just been decimated. You look at what’s happened in Italy, it’s a very well-known fact, what happened in Italy. No, they were hit very hard. It’s a group. We’ve had very good dis- — really just good discussions. Steve, I just want to say we have had — — discussions — wait, excuse me. One second, please. We’ve had very good discussions with the airlines. Very good discussions. I don’t want to say that. You’ll be hearing over the next few days. And, Steve, do you want to talk about phase four? When you say “my authority” — the President’s authority. Not mine, because it’s not me. This is — when somebody is the President of the United States, the authority is total, and that’s the way it’s got to be. It’s total. It’s total. And the governors know that. The governors know that. No, you have — — a couple of bands of — excuse me. Excuse me. You have a couple — You have a couple of bands of Democrat governors, but they will agree to it. They will agree to it. But the authority of the President of the United States, having to do with the subject we’re talking about, is total. Yeah, please, go ahead. Go ahead, please. At the right time. And a very good question, actually. Well, I’m going to have to take a look. I wouldn’t say Italy is doing great right now, and I wouldn’t say Spain is doing great right now. And we just heard that France is extending its stay-inside order, right? Their stay — they’ve extended it — I just see that — and, I think, for a short period of time. But no, when they’re back. We want to do it very quickly, but we want to make sure everything is good. No, right now we have a very — Right now we have a very strong ban. We’re going to keep it that way until they heal. Well, I can’t tell you that. I can’t tell you that. I have to see: How are they doing? I mean, France just went for another two days — for another two weeks. We have to see. Jon. Well, I’m not sure who — Jon, I’m not sure who really gave me advice on the ban. I think I took — I think I took my own advice on the ban. I don’t know. Okay. I will and many other people also. But I will absolutely take their advice. Please go ahead. I don’t think it would be likely because I think we’re not very far from being on the same page. Please. Well, they have to do it. Look, they’re supposed to be doing it. Yeah, I know. I know. Well, they — they may need help, but — But they’re there. They’re on ground. They’ve got local mayors, local representatives. They have people that do it. And what we did last time is unprecedented. We literally rebuilt tests. We — we rebuilt a whole industry because we inherited nothing. What we inherited from the previous administration was totally broken, which somebody should eventually say. Not only were the cupboards bare, as I say, but we inherited broken testing. Now we have great testing. I just left the top executives at Abbott. Who would have thought that would have happened, where they have such a great test as that? And, in fact, what I’ll do — I think, unless you have any further questions for the Secretary of the Treasury — do you have anybody for Steve? Anybody? Is that for the Secretary of the Treasury or for me? Because if it’s for me, we can wait. We have to get him back to work, okay? Well, we didn’t want to do the Kennedy Center, just so you understand. And that that was done — the Democrats wanted it in. We didn’t want that, but they wanted it in. And we had to agree in order to get something done for the workers. But we want this to be for the workers and for companies that employ the workers. That’s what we’re looking for. We’re not looking for extraneous nonsense. But are you talking about unemployment? You’re talking about the unemployment? Sending it indirectly to the states? We would have preferred that it was sent directly to the people. The Democrats wanted it to be sent through the unemployment system. And, you know, I’ve talked to you about it: We have 40-year-old equipment in many of those systems. They’re run by the state. But I’m hearing they’re getting the money out anyway. Okay? Thank you, Steve. Phase four, Steve. Phase four. Come on, Steve. Okay. So you know what we’re going to do? We’re going to write up papers on this. It’s not going to be necessary, because the governors need us one way or the other, because ultimately it comes with the federal government. That being said, we’re getting along very well with the governors, and I feel very certain that there won’t be a problem. Yeah, please. Go ahead. I haven’t asked anybody because I don’t — you know why? Because I don’t have to. Go ahead, please. Enough. Please. It’s nice of Governor Hogan, very much. We appreciate Governor Hogan’s statement. Cuomo. Which one? What did he say? Well, they’re looking at things in phase four, where they have — you know, where they talk about states, and they’re also talking about hospitals. They’re talking about states who have been battered, and they’re also talking about hospitals. And we’re certainly willing to look at that. You know, we’ll see what we all come back with. But they are talking about states and they’re talking about hospitals. OAN. The sale of what? Well, I don’t think that’s going to happen. I think it’s very extreme. But she’s doing it, and I think it’s going to be over a long way before we have to start thinking about it too much. It is strong. It’s a very strong position to take. But they’re making a lot of progress in Michigan, so let’s see how it all works. We’re going to be talking about that very soon. I’m getting a full report. I’m not happy with the World Health Organization. I’m not happy with the World Trade Organization either. We’ve been ripped off by everybody. And we have — this country, for so many years, has been ripped off by everybody, whether it’s a World Health or World Trade. And they’re like — I call them the “Bobbsey Twins.” They’d look at our country — for years and years, we had people that did nothing about it. We’re doing a lot about it. So we’ll have a report. And we’ll also — we’re also talking about the World Trade Organization. But we’ve made a lot of progress there. We’re now winning cases for the first time, because they know I’ll leave if we don’t get treated fairly. This country — our country — was at a point where we rarely, if ever, won the lawsuits within the World Trade Organization. But now we’re winning a lot of them, because they know I’m not — I’m not playing games. We will pull out if we have to. We just won a 7-billion-dollar lawsuit, which was very nice. Uh, yeah. I would say, by the end of the week, I’m going to make a decision on that. Yeah. There’s a lot of — right now, there’s a lot of things happening. How do you know there are no consequences? How do you know there are no consequences? I wouldn’t tell you. China will find out. Why would I tell you? No, you started off by saying, “Why are there no consequences?” How do you know there are no consequences? You’re going to find out. I wouldn’t tell you. You’d probably be the last person on Earth I’d tell. Go ahead. Uh, yeah, please. Well, make no mistake about it: In the long history of this country, the authority of the President of the United States during national emergencies is unquestionably plenary. And you can look back through times of war and other national emergencies. And as the President said, we’ll happily brief that. But in the days ahead, what the President has charged us to do is to work with our health experts. We’re going to bring together an extraordinary group of American business leaders to counsel the President. And then, working with the CDC, we’re going to produce new guidelines, based upon the data, for every state and territory in this nation. We’re going to give them guidance. And, as the President has indicated, we’ll continue to respect the leadership and partnership that we forge with every governor in America. But this is an unprecedented time. But I have to tell you: When you look at the fact — despite the heartbreaking loss of more than 22,000 Americans — when you look at the fact of what the health experts told us this could be, I think I only can feel a sense of gratitude to the American people, gratitude to the extraordinary team that has counseled this President, the steps that President Trump has taken, the policies that governors have implemented all across America. I mean, we were discussing today, at the task force, that when you look at the European Union as a whole, they have nearly three times the mortality rate that the United States of America has today. And that is a tribute to our extraordinary healthcare workers, their dedication, their tireless work. But it’s also a tribute to the fact that the American people put into practice the mitigation efforts that the President counseled the nation to do on the advice of our best scientists, now more than a month ago, and our hospitals were not overwhelmed and are not overwhelmed at this hour. And I have to tell you that standing here today, I couldn’t be more proud to stand alongside this President and to be a part of this team that has served the American people during this challenging hour. And I just say to you: To every American looking on, as we see the numbers leveling and maybe even beginning to go down, I just encourage you to keep doing what you’re doing. Because of the sacrifices that Americans and American families have made through these mitigation efforts, you’re saving lives and you’re seeing our nation through this time. Go ahead. Well, you don’t know that. You don’t know that. You don’t know that. I’m sorry. You don’t know that. No, you made a statement. You don’t know that. And we would — and we would like to have their cooperation. And we are going to have their cooperation. They will cooperate perfectly. Watch. All right, go ahead, with the face mask. Go ahead. Barely. I hear you well, actually. Well, we’re looking at that certainly. I heard that complaint, but the mayor seems to be very happy with everything we’ve done. I mean, she’s actually — and she was on today, saying very good things. Okay, yeah. Go ahead in the back. It does. And I hope that won’t happen. I certainly hope that won’t happen, but it does weigh on my mind. Okay, in the back, go ahead. You had one. Go ahead. Go ahead, please. China has their own difficulties. We have a relationship with China that — we’re not happy with certain things that happened over the last period of time, as you know, and I’ve been very explicit on that. But we know all about that. And, no, China is — we’ve seen what they did. We’ve seen many other things that they’ve done, both pro and con. And we’ll be just fine. I don’t want to say that, but we’re going to be putting out guidelines and recommendations fairly quickly. In a few days. I’m not going to say. But, look, certain states are doing very well. Certain big parts of the country are doing very well. They’re doing, really, very well. And so we’re going to be putting out recommendations and guidelines very soon. Steve? Well, you’re going to see. I — I don’t want to tell you now, but right now we have a very strong indication that we know, pretty much — we have some good ideas. I also do want to get — I want to have — we’ll have video conference or at least a conference call with a lot of very good people, having to do with certain fields, whether it’s energy or whether it’s entertainment and restaurants, et cetera, et cetera. We have to get people back into restaurants. We have to do what we have to do. Whether it’s deductibility or not, we’ll see, but it should be deductibility. You’ll get them back so fast. I mean, they used to have deductibility. The restaurant business, it — it was one of the hot businesses. And then they ended it a long time ago, many years ago. But we may need that to get people back into the restaurants. Please. Absentee ballot, are you talking about? Absentee ballot? Well, I don’t know what she did. I mean, I didn’t see that. When did that happen? Today? Well, I wish her luck. I wish her a lot of luck. Please, go ahead. We discussed many things. We did discuss China. We discussed many different things, but we — it was primarily a call on the oil, as you can imagine. And they were very helpful in getting a stabilization price, a stabilization of the number of barrels. I think the number is going to be closer to 20 — maybe 15, but closer to 20 than it is going to be to 10. And I think it was a very important call. I also spoke with the King of Saudi Arabia and that was a very important call. And the bottom nine is OPEC Plus. It’s called OPEC Plus because there are other states also, other nations. We came to a very good agreement. Please. Go ahead. I would say mostly we were talking about China. We were talking about their borders. And we’re talking about our borders a little bit — our borders with Mexico. Because, as you know, Mexico is a big part of the deal. And Mexico really — it was very complex from the standpoint of Mexico. It was not an easy deal for Mexico. And the President — we appreciated a certain amount of flexibility. But we talked about borders, we talked about China, we talked about Mexico. Well, I mean, I — we did talk about the arms. Yes, we did. That was a very important part of the call actually. Yeah, good point. Please. Well, they have to get the material. You know, the governors have to get the material. Now, if they can’t get it, they’re going to see us. I’m talking about the local governments. I’m talking about governors have to get the material. Now, they have machines. In fact, we — we’re going to go into — I’d ask Mike to go into it as soon as I leave. They have very powerful machines that they don’t know they even have. I’m not talking about Abbott; I’m talking about the governors. They have machines that are used for this — You know what I’m talk- — do you know what I’m referring to? Very big, very powerful machines where, in a certain state’s case, they’re only using 10 percent of their capacity and they didn’t know it. That happens to be Illinois. Jon, please. What do you think the answer to that is? Rapidly increasing the numbers. Rapidly increases. Well, pretty quickly. Well, you have other machines where they can really work. And a lot of the states have the big machines that can do a lot. They didn’t even know they had them. They didn’t even know that they had them. And Mike is going to be talking about that. Yeah. Google and Apple. You mean Google and Apple combination. No. A lot of people don’t like it from the standpoint of constitutional rights. I mean, a lot of people don’t like it and some people think it’s great. No, they are working on that, as I understand. Yeah, no, I know that. I know that. I know. That’s right. No, Google is looking at it, but Google is also working with Apple or looking at something. We have the greatest companies in the world looking at things that, in a year from now, everything that we’re looking at now is going to be obsolete. That’s how good it is. We have things happening that are unbelievable. I saw a presentation today that I can’t talk about yet, but it’s incredible. Plus, I think they’re doing — Tony — I think they’re doing very well in the vaccines. They’re working hard on the vaccines and I think you’ll have an answer for vaccines. I believe that there’s some great things coming out with respect to that. Now you need a testing period, but you’re going to have some great things. Please. No, no. This is — this is the Google and Apple. I don’t know if it’s a partnership or what, but they’re working on some — They’re working on more than one element. They’re working on a couple of different things, Google and Apple. Google is also working on something, as you know, having to do with testing. I believe they’re doing that in a singular fashion. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I know. That’s right. Well, it’s an amazing thing, but a lot of people have some very big constitutional problems with it. You know that. It’s an amazing thing and it would be — actually, as you know, other countries are thinking about using something similar but not as good. I hear Singapore is. Singapore is. No, Singapore had a little bit of a setback because they had a –they had a break. You know that, and — but they’ll take care of it. I know — I know the folks in Singapore. They’re doing a great job and they’re going to put it back very quickly. But Singapore and other countries are looking at other things, and some countries are doing other things. Well, I don’t want to get into that because we have a whole constitutional thing. We have more of a constitutional problem than a mechanical problem, but we will be making a determination on that. That’s something we’re going to be discussing with a lot of people over the next four weeks. That would be a very accurate way of doing it, but a lot of people have a problem with it. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Well, it’s moving along. I think I can speak because I — I have to leave. Moving along quickly, moving along well. It’s a test that’s been going along for many, many years, except now we have very modern, very incredible versions of it. But that’s moving on. The antibody test have — moving along very well. Okay, anymore COVID-19? COVID-19? Yeah, Steve. Well, that’s going through the Navy, as I understand it. The Navy is going to be making decisions on all of that. And they had a break in — I don’t think the ship should have been stopping in Vietnam when you have a pandemic, to be honest with you. You know, I don’t think the captain should have been writing letters. He’s not Ernest Hemingway, as I said before, and he shouldn’t have been writing letters. And I don’t think — I don’t know who gave the orders to stop in Vietnam. But they stopped in Vietnam and all of a sudden they get on, and now you have over 500 sailors and — and people on the ship that are affected. I don’t know whose idea that was, but that wasn’t such a good idea in the middle of a pandemic. Yes, please. Jon. Go ahead, Jon. Nothing changed it. No, no, I know exactly what you’re going to say. Nothing changed it. The fact that I want to rely on states or maybe will or maybe have, and the fact that we’ve gotten on — that’s one thing. The fact that I don’t want to use the power is another thing. Look — Yes, Constitution. Constitutionally. You can look at constitutionally. You can look at federalism. You can look at it any different way. Jon, the fact that I don’t want to exert my power is much different. We have the power. You asked, “Does the federal government have the power?” The federal government has absolute power. It has the power. As to whether or not I’ll use that power, we’ll see. I would rather — Jon, I would rather work with the states, because I like going down to a local government. That’s why with — I guess it’s now seven states not eight that — because South Carolina did — you know, they went away from what we discussed the last time. So that’s why I looked at the individual states; they’re doing a very good job. They’re really doing a very good job. I’d rather have them make the decision. Now, the fact that I’d rather have — that’s fine. But I have the absolute right to do if I want to. I may not want to. We have a very good relationship. Now, we’ll see what happens. If you notice, the few states you’re talking about, they’re all with Democrat governors. But if governors are doing a good job and they control it better — because you don’t have somebody in Washington saying, “Set up a testing site in the parking lot of a Walmart.” And we’re in Washington and they’re in a state that’s very far away. That’s really — it should be and it should have always been. And I’ve always said it was. But the relationship we have now with the states and governors is very good. And we’ll be announcing, over the next very short period of time, exactly what we’re going to be doing. Okay, a couple of more. Go ahead. Well, nobody has called about coronavirus, about — from their standpoint. Look, they had the H1N1, which is swine flu, and that was a big failure. That was a tremendous failure. They had a lot of failures. And you take a look at what — you take a look at the history. And, you know, 17,000 people died. And you talk about late? They were so late — they were late like it never even existed. That was a — that was a big problem. Caused a lot of other people a big problem too. So, you know, if Joe Biden would like a briefing, I’d certainly get him a briefing. I don’t know what he’d do with it. Yeah, please. No. No, they’re not. No. Yeah. Yes, go ahead, please. Well, you have Mike’s task force, which is the White House Task Force, which really brought us up to this point brilliantly, I must say. Dealt with governors and dealt with governors all the way through. And I was on many of those calls. And every call got better and better and better. It was hostile at the beginning. By the time we finished — I mean, today’s call was a very good call, a very friendly call. I think everyone is online. And again, you don’t have anybody driving you crazy, saying they’re not getting ventilators, they’re not getting all of the different things, they need more beds. They have a lot of beds right now. And we always err — and I think it’s important for you know — we always erred on the sake of “Give them more.” Even when we didn’t think — we didn’t think New York needed the beds that they were asking for. We didn’t think they needed the ventilators that they asked for. And we were right. Now, on ventilators, we’re ready to march. I told you this: We’re ready to march. We have 10,000 ventilators. We’re ready to move them anywhere in the country when we need them, if we need them. We’re also building a lot of ventilators, and that’s going to be used at some point, I believe. You know we’re going to have stockpiles, including state stockpiles if they want to work out some kind of an arrangement with us. But we’re also going to help other countries, whether it’s Italy, or Spain, or other — France is having a big problem. They all desperately need — Germany too — they need ventilators. So we’re going to have a lot of ventilators. We have a lot — you heard the numbers — we have a lot coming next week. Next week, we have a tremendous amount coming. Okay, final question. Steve. No. Then we have — in addition to that, we have a number of committees. We’ll have a transportation committee. We’re going to have a manufacturing committee. You’ll see it tomorrow. We’re also having a religious leaders committee. We have a great group of religious leaders. We’re having committees with religious leaders. You’ve been seeing what’s going on with the churches, and all of that. And we’re going to have a faith leaders committee. And so we have — we’re going to have a few committees. I’ll call them “committees,” and then ultimately we’re going to make decisions. So we’re going to make decisions fairly quickly, and I think they’re going to be the correct decision. I hope so. Steve. Soon. Soon. And they already know what I want. And so, when we form — when you say “form,” I don’t have to give them instructions. These are very sophisticated people. These are the best people in their fields. So I don’t have to say, “Gee, let’s — we just met and we’re going to meet in two weeks and here’s what we’re…” I said, “Here’s what I want.” We’ve already told them. And they’re the — — the best names in the various businesses and professions and religions. I mean, they’re — these are the greatest names. The people that, I think, probably know the best. So, we’ve called them and we’re going to be speaking to them very soon. And we want them to have — if it’s questions, or statements, we want them to have that for us. And we will have either a response, or maybe — I mean, ideally we’re going to be learning from them. And we’ll be able to do that and put them — put everything we learned from those calls into our new guidelines. So we’re going to have new guidelines coming soon. I think it’s going to be very good. I think it’s going to be very smooth. And I hope it’s going to be very safe. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Stanley Chera is a friend of mine for a long time. He’s a great real estate person — passed away. Was a great real estate person. Great. Great. Sort of a legend in New York real estate. He called me a couple of weeks ago, said he tested positive. Stanley is in his early- to mid-80s, I guess. And Stanley went to the hospital and he never came out. He went into a coma. He was unconscious for a long period of time and he never made it. A great man. He left — very charitable, really a great philanthropist. A very, very successful person in Manhattan, in the real estate business. So I got to know him a lot. He was so excited when his friend from New York became the President of the United States. He was like — like a young boy. And he was not a young boy, but he was like a young boy. He was so excited. He thought we’d do such a good job and he was so happy. And he — he was very proud of what we’ve done in this administration. But he was tested positive, and unfortunately he — he didn’t make it. It’s a very — to me, it’s a very sad thing. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody, and good afternoon. Today is Good Friday. And this Sunday, millions of Christians celebrate Easter and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. At this holy time, we pray that God will heal the sick and comfort the heartbroken and bless our heroes. As American families look forward to Easter, we’re reminded that our story ends not in despair, but in triumph and renewal. Very appropriate, isn’t it? I’d like to provide Americans an update on our ongoing efforts in the war against the invisible enemy. Before I do that, I’ll have a couple of notes. The United States, in discussions last night with Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Russia, and –dealing with OPEC nations — we are trying to get Mexico, as the expression goes, “over the barrel.” And Mexico is committing to do 100,000 fewer barrels. The President and I spoke last night. We have a great relationship, great friendship. They’re helping us very much at the border. They have 27,000 soldiers — Mexican soldiers — on our border right now, stopping people from coming into our country as our wall goes up. We’re up to about 168 miles of wall. And in speaking with the President, they have a limit. The OPEC nations have agreed to a different limit: a reduction of about 23 percent. So what I thought I would do — and I don’t know that it’s going to be accepted; we’ll find out — the United States will help Mexico along and they’ll reimburse us sometime at a later date when they’re prepared to do so. And we had a great conversation, but we’ll find out how that all works out. As you know, they’re trying to get rid of the glut of oil. There’s a tremendous glut of oil. And we don’t want anything to hurt our incredible industry. We’re actually the largest producer in the world now, so we don’t want anything to hurt those jobs — those great jobs in Texas and North Dakota, in Oklahoma, and everywhere. We have a tremendous energy — New Mexico — tremendous energy business. And we want to keep those jobs. So we’re — we’re working on it. I think, eventually, it’s going to work out. It may work out quicker than what most people thought possible. And maybe it won’t, but it’ll work out eventually. Our experts are monitoring the data from every part of our country having to do with the topic that we’re here to discuss. In the midst of grief and pain, we’re seeing clear signs that our aggressive strategy is saving countless lives. Tremendous progress is being made. Although when you look at some of the numbers — I just spoke with Governor Cuomo; we had a good talk. When you look at those numbers — the numbers of death, people that have died — it’s so horrible. Now, on the other side, you have the numbers of beds being used, we were just saying, are substantially reduced. That’s usually the sign that it’s heading in the downward curve. So, New York, we know where that is. But in the midst of all this grief and this pain, we’re seeing these signs and we’re seeing them very strongly. And a lot of that has to do with the aggressive strategy in saving so many lives. We’re saving so many lives compared to what it could have been. So, nobody knows what the number is, but we had a number of 100,000 lives. As many as that is, it’s impossible to even think of it. And that was the low end with a tremendous amount of work and a tremendous amount of — you can call it many different things. Our people had to be extremely strong and brave to be able to put up with what they’ve put up with. But the minimum, if you did this social distancing at every other aspect — and I think I can say 90 percent, maybe even more than that, were able to do it — the minimum number was 100,000 lives, and I think we’ll be substantially under that number. Hard to believe that if you had 60,000 — you could never be happy, but that’s a lot fewer than we were originally told and thinking. So they said between 100- and 220,000 lives on the minimum side, and then up to 2.2 million lives if we didn’t do anything. But it showed a just tremendous resolve by the people of this country. So we’ll see what it ends up being, but it looks like we’re headed to a number substantially below the 100,000. That would be the low mark. And I hope that bears out. The situation in Detroit and New Orleans appears to be stabilizing. Detroit has really started to go up, and now it is stabilizing. And New Orleans is a great place; I have so many friends there. They can’t believe what’s happening, but it’s really stabilized. I spoke with the governor of Louisiana. And, as you know, we’re building them additional beds right now — the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA — and that is going to be done. And I hope they’re not going to be very well used because I think they’ve really — I don’t think they’re going to need them or certainly not very many of them. We built them a big hospital of 1,000 beds and now we’re — we’re in the midst of doing another 1,000. I don’t think they’re going to be using very many of them, and that’s a good thing. There was a time, two weeks ago, where we said, “That’s not going to be nearly enough. We’re going to have to build more.” But we wanted to wait to see and I’m glad we waited. It just looks like they’re doing really well. Louisiana and the state of Michigan is doing, really, much better than we thought. In Washington State, we’ve made enough progress that the governor is now able to return an Army field hospital, so we’re going to take that hospital. We don’t think we need any more hospitals. We built thousands of beds all over the country, and we think we’re probably not going to need that hospital anyway. And if we do, we’re ready to move it to a different location. In New York, we’re seeing hospital admissions declining very substantially, as I said. And nationwide, the number of new cases per day is flattening substantially, suggesting that we are near the peak and our comprehensive strategy is working. Over time, our guidelines to slow the spread are decreasing the rate of new cases very substantially and will result in fewer hospital admissions. And we’re seeing that; it’s incredible. I think, with no exceptions, it’s looking like it’s lower. And again, that’s because of the people doing what they had to do. Great people. And working with elected representatives and — and the doctors, the nurses, and everybody — I mean, just everybody. Everybody is so, so — has been so amazing. I was told this morning again, “Please mention all of those people working in the grocery stores.” And it’s true. The checkouts and the clerks and the people that are really — and a number of those people have become infected. So we want to thank them and a shout-out to them. With the tireless devotion of American doctors and nurses and all of the medical people, we’ve kept our fatality rate very, very low compared to other countries. My administration is closely monitoring the data on the virus’s impact on our cherished African American communities because they’ve been hit hard. And the Surgeon General will be sharing more of that information right after we’re finished here. He’ll be coming up and saying exactly what’s happening because it’s really — it’s very troublesome, I will tell you that. I’d also like to provide clarity on the important point for many Americans on elective surgeries. While we’ve asked hospitals to cancel surgeries and procedures that do not take place at this time, just not to do them now — the choice to delay any treatment still remains between the patient and their doctor. We’re not advising Americans to postpone medical treatment that the doctor believes should occur now. So it’s different kinds of surgery, obviously, but we’re really getting to the point where you can start to think about doing that surgery, if necessary, pretty soon, I think. Pretty soon. Yesterday, I directed Secretary of Agriculture Sonny to — Sonny Perdue to expedite aid to American farmers. And Secretary Perdue will be using all of the tools at his disposal to develop a program — and very quickly — of at least $16 billion to provide relief for farmers, ranchers, and producers impacted by the coronavirus. In this time of crisis, we must keep our supply chains moving from the beginning — right from beginning to end. And we’re committed to supporting the amazing men and women who produce supply. I did, last night, a statement on social media, and I said I have directed Secretary Sonny Perdue to expedite help to our farmers, especially to the smaller farmers who are very, very badly hurting right now. I expect Secretary Perdue to use all of the funds and authorities at his disposal to make sure that our food supply is stable and safe, and our great farmers are prosperous and continue to be prosperous. We’re working very hard to make sure our food supply chain is sound and plentiful, but we all know that that begins with our farmers, cattlemen, ranchers, and producers. So we’re going to be working with the small farmers, the big farmers, the cattlemen, the ranchers — all of the producers. We’re going to take care of them. We’re working with them right now. We have a lot of money that was put there through our use of tariffs and other means, and we’re going to help out our farmers. And I don’t think — I tell you, I’ve been helping our farmers for a couple of years because they were targeted, as you know, by China and others. And I think they’re very grateful to what — for what we’ve done. On the medical front, the FDA — FDA has issued 47 emergency use authorizations for advancements and testing new ventilator designs, innovations, and personal protective equipment, and experimental medicines. And Dr. Hahn is going to be talking about that. We’ve cut through the red tape to give doctors and patients unprecedented freedom to make their own healthcare decisions, granting access to potential therapies and drugs. Since Monday, we’ve deployed two major shipments of hydroxychloroquine from our National Stockpile. And it’s going to various cities. And we are also disposing and getting, as quickly as we can, portions of it to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. And speaking of the Department of Defense, they’re going to be sending us 10 million N95 masks that they had. And we’re in great shape in every way. We’re in great shape with ventilators. We’re in great shape with protective clothing. We have additional planeloads coming in. But we’re not getting any calls from governors at this moment. I can speak, I think for — Vice President Pence will be talking in a little while. We’re getting — we’re getting very few calls from governors or anybody else needing anything. They’re in great shape for this surge that’s coming in certain areas in particular, and that’s a good job. You’ve done a great job on that, Mike. Really, a great job. I appreciate it. The whole country appreciates it. More than 2 million coronavirus tests have now been completed, and we’re conducting approximately 100,000 more every day. We’re also working to bring blood-based serology tests to the market as quickly as possible so that Americans can determine whether or not they have already had the virus and potentially have immunity. They have immunity if they’ve had the virus. A lot of them don’t even know if they’ve had it. Sometimes it’s brutal. You see the Prime Minister seems to be doing well now, I hope. He had a rough go of it, and still is, but he’s doing better. And then some people don’t even know they had it. It could be sniffles. It could be they don’t feel perfect, but they’ve had it. And they’re the lucky ones. The NIH, CDC, and FDA are currently validating these antibody tests to ensure that they are accurate, and they’re doing that at breakneck speed. I think we can say that, Doctor. And we’re going to get them approved very quickly — Dr. Hahn. When validated, we’re confident that the production will scale up to tens of millions of tests very quickly. We’re leading the world now in testing, by far, and we’re going to keep it that way. Other countries are coming to us, and they’re wanting to know about our tests and can they buy the tests, and can they do whatever they have to do to get the tests. And we’re going to make that — very soon, we’ll be in a position to make that possible because it’s important for them to have it. And we’re going to have an announcement on the World Health Organization sometime next week. As you know, we give them approximately $500 million a year, and we’re going to be talking about that subject next week. We’ll have a lot to say about it. We’ll hold it. Every American should be proud of what our country has achieved in just a short period of time. The U.S. military has deployed thousands of personnel to build 23 temporary hospitals with more than 16,000 beds. And we have the potential to build many more if we needed them, but we’re all ready to go. But I don’t think we’re going to need them, which is great — great news. And we built those hospitals in 12 states and the District of Columbia using the Defense Production Act. And we used it like a hammer. A lot of the media said: Oh, we weren’t using it. We used it like a hammer to a point where all we had to do was say the words and everybody gave us max. And they’ve done a good job. They really have done a good job, with few exceptions. And we’ve harnessed the full power of American industry to produce ventilators and other essential supplies. Right now, we’re making thousands of ventilators, many of which we won’t need, but we’ll use them in our stockpile. And we’ll build that up. We’ll also help build up the stockpiles, which they should have had in the states. And so we’re working with governors on that, and we’ll also help other countries or countries that are calling us for help, if they need ventilators and they’re in no no position to build ventilators. We are. We have Ford and General Motors, and many, many companies are building ventilators. So we’re going to be helping — at a not-too-distant point, we’re going to be helping quite a few of the countries. Now, we’ve launched Project Airbridge to deliver nearly 300 million pieces of personal protective equipment from and around the globe. We’re also shipping out 60 sterilization systems to 10 different cities that can each sterilize up to 80,000 masks each day, and I’m even hearing it can go up to 120,000 masks a day — certain equipment with certain additions. It’s a company in Ohio that makes it. It’s a great company. Great — I hear it’s a great product. It works very well. I asked that question; I said, “How come we have to buy so many masks? Why can’t we sterilize the masks that are being used?” And the answer was, “You can.” In this case, they say, up to 20 times. So we can take a mask — certain types of masks — the N95s in particular — and we can sterilize them, make them very clean, up to 20 times. That’s a great thing. In addition, we passed the largest emergency economic relief package in American history to save the U.S. economy and protect the American worker. As you know, this past week, which was four active days on the stock market — Good Friday today is not — is not included; the markets are closed. In four days, we had the biggest market increase — stock market increase that we’ve had in 50 years. That tells you that there’s a pent-up demand. That tells you they want to get back. There’s something good going to happen. I really believe that. There’s something very good going to happen. We have to get back. So think of it: In this horrible period, this horrible, dark period where this — this monster came and worked its horrible, horrible spell over the world — 184 countries as of this morning. A hundred and eighty-four countries. We’ve done well, and I guess the market thinks we’ve done well, because we hit the biggest stock market increase without one day — we’re talking four days instead of five — that we’ve had in 50 years. Fifty years. Think of that. More than 50 years, actually. In short, the American people have launched the greatest mobilization of our society since World War Two, deploying every scientific, governmental, medical, and military resource to defeat the virus. So I want to just start then with — we’re going to answer questions later. We’ll have time. I think we have a lot of time today. A lot of people are off, as they should be. Good Friday. But — so I’ll stick around, and we’ll answer questions later. I want to start with Deborah Birx, please. Dr. Birx. And you can go over some of the numbers we just looked at, and that’d be great. Thank you very much, Deborah. Thank you very much, Deborah. Doctor, please. Please, Doctor. Thank you. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Mike, please. Thank you. Great job. Thank you. Okay, it’s Good Friday. Let’s be nice. Okay? Let’s be real nice. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Yeah. So all of the OPEC nations met, and others, and they’re all agreeing to cut back because there’s a tremendous glut. We don’t even — we’re filling up our strategic reserves. We don’t even have room to store it. In fact, they’re using ships to store oil. There’s never been anything like this. It was being overproduced to start off with, and then you had the virus and that took off 40 percent right there. So we have — there’s a glut of oil like nobody has ever seen before. It’s good in many ways and, depending on where you are, who you are, it’s bad. We have a tremendous energy business with hundreds of thousands of jobs. We’re doing great. Number one in the world. So, they all got together and they said, “We’re going to cut it, because we have to get rid of this tremendous supply.” Now, the good news is, gasoline prices — I’m seeing 90 cents, 85 cents, in different parts of the country, a gallon. Nobody has ever seen that. I guess you have to go back to the 1950s where they had the big large dollar bills, remember? You don’t remember; you’re too young. But the fact that you have to go back a long ways to see it. So there’s some good. The airlines are trying to come back, having low fuel costs is good for them — and other reasons. Steel manufacturing — but a lot of the steel goes to building what we do for the oil and engineering firms. So, you know, that’s a — that’s a double-edged sword. But it’s — it’s — we want to keep our energy. We want to remain independent. We will remain independent, I think, regardless. But we want to get rid of this tremendous overflow. There’s no place to even store it. So the OPEC nations met. They’ve been meeting. And, you know, I’ve hated OPEC over the years, absolutely hated them. But obviously it broke down and we potentially have years’ worth of supply. A long time before it ever can catch up, even if they do reduce it. And they agreed, but Mexico didn’t agree. It was one of the few countries that didn’t agree. This is OPEC-Plus. These are OPEC-Plus countries outside — you understand? And Mexico didn’t agree. And I understand the President very well. He has a level when he came in, and he wanted to keep it at that level. Oil is important for Mexico. The problem is — and I explained it very strongly — you know, you’re going to be selling it for $5 or $10 a barrel. So, in the end, it’s bad. But he did have some political difficulty with it, frankly, and I understand that too. And it’s a small amount for us. It’s a large amount for Mexico, but it’s a very small amount for the United States, being the biggest producer. So I agreed to pick up some of the slack. So he was going to reduce it by 100,000 barrels — reduce his output by 100,000 barrels. And I was going to pick up the slack and they would make it up to us at a later date. They would make up what we’re doing at a later date. It could be in a different form. And I don’t know whether or not that’s going to be — for Mexico, it was acceptable. I don’t know whether or not that’s going to be acceptable to the other oil-producing nations. We’ll find out. But it’s something that would certainly be acceptable to me to get it over the back. So Mexico is going to reduce by 100,000 barrels, and that would mean that they’re 250 to 300 barrels short. We’d make up the difference. They would reimburse us at a later date. Okay? By cutting some U.S. production. Now, the U.S, production has already been cut, because we’re a market-driven economy and — and oil is very market driven. They’ve been cutting oil all over the place. We’re cutting it back. And what does it mean really? It means we have it in the ground. We can use it. Now we have a lot of — we have a lot of ground with a lot of oil in it. I think we’re number one in that too. We’re probably number one, especially with ANWR. As you know, I got ANWR approved in Alaska. That’s one of the biggest finds anywhere in the world. So when you add it all up, I think we’re probably number one, even in what we have under- — we’re very lucky. We were — we grew up in a land that was rich in a lot of ways, but it’s also rich because it has a lot of oil underneath — oil and gas. And as, you know, natural gas — LNG — is all over the country now at a very low price. And our carbon, our atmosphere, our — the level of environmental cleanliness is at its all-time best right now. All-time best. Because we are using a lot of natural gas. But we have many forms of energy, including some of the newer forms that people want to see us go to. We have a lot of different forms of energy. We’re number one in the world. We want to keep it that way. So we’re helping Mexico out. We will be reimbursed, in a form, sometime in the future. Please. Well, I think we’re going to have it in retreat. Will it be today? No. Tomorrow? No. But it will be — at a certain point in the not-too-distant future, it will be gone. Well, we’ll know. We’ll know because people aren’t going to go to the hospital, people aren’t going to get sick. You’re going to know that without — but we’re going to do very substantial testing. We’re doing more testing right now than any other country in the world by far. And if you’d like to have that question answered, I’ll have the professional answer it. Deborah, perhaps you could come up. We are doing tremendous testing, but you’ll know. You’re going to know before anybody, because you’re going to see nobody’s getting sick anymore. It will be gone, and it won’t be that much longer. Go ahead. Go ahead. Let you ask who? I have not. When did they say this would take place? When? Oh, well, we’ll talk about that. Doctor, would you like to talk about that? I haven’t — they haven’t seen it. I guess, you’re seeing — I guess they leaked it to NBC. Nobody has it. And they’re the ones that do it, so. We’ll find out about it. They don’t know about it. Do you want to say something, Tony? Go ahead. Look, I think we’re going to do both. We’re going to go back to work and we’re going to stay healthy. And staying healthy is also a proportion. If you look at what we’re doing, we’re looking at a date — we hope we’re going to be able to fulfill a certain date — but we’re not doing anything until we know that this country is going to be healthy. We don’t want to go back and start doing it over again, even though it would be in a smaller scale. Yeah, Jeff. Go ahead. Yes, we would — which we’ve already done, by the way. But we would agree to a reduction cut; they would agree to do something to compensate us in the future. Okay? We didn’t discuss that with Saudi Arabia. We just discussed the numbers and we discussed who is opposed and who is not. And pretty much everybody is in favor of it, because they’re getting clobbered. They’re all getting clobbered. All of those countries are having problems. If you look at Saudi Arabia, that’s their source of income — primary source of income, by far. So they want to do it. Russia wants to do it. The OPEC nations want to do it. They all want to do it. So we’ll see what happens. There’s a difference between wanting to do it and doing it. Yeah, go ahead. OAN, in the back. Venezuela. Go ahead. Yeah. We will not be happy if that takes place. I have not spoken to President Xi of China about Venezuela — about that aspect of Venezuela. But if that took place, we will not be happy. Okay? I will not be happy. I’m concerned about everything. I’m concerned about everything. That’s why I don’t sleep a lot. I get myself concerned about everything. But I would not be happy about that. Go ahead. I listen to them about everything. I think they’re actually surprised. I have great respect for these people. All of them. You, look — And others that are working with us. I have great respect for this group. In fact, I told Tony Fauci — I said, “Why don’t you move to New York, run against AOC? You will win easily.” But he decided that he’s not going to do that, okay? I kid. By the way — — you know that — I can only say this: I have tremendous respect for these people and we’ve done very well. And when you look at us compared to others — we’re a big nation. When you look at us compared to others, when you see how we’ve taken testing from a broken system that I inherited to having the best tests that anyone has made anywhere in the world — and other countries are calling us, wanting to use our technology. I have great respect for these people. I’m never saying bad about these people. I will certainly listen. I will certainly listen. There are two sides. Remember, there is — I know — I understand the other side of the argument very well because I look at both sides of an argument. I will listen to them very carefully though. Please. Go ahead. I think my economic advisors are interested in the third quarter and really the fourth quarter. And I think we have a chance to do record fourth quarter numbers, because there’s a tremendous pent-up demand. And you see it this week — I mean, what reason would there be, other than faith in us and in this country? Faith in this group — and me, and our Vice President, and everybody. Governors, perhaps. You can add them into it also. What reason would that be for — in a shortened week, four days instead of five — to have the biggest stock market gain in over 50 years? So, I think that — you know, to me, there’s a sign. Hey, look, with all we’ve been down — I mean, we’ve — we’ve never been hit — I don’t know, has this country ever been hit like this? Probably not. 1917, but that was different, and it was a different time, and, frankly, Europe took the brunt of it. We didn’t, but it was a terrible time also. But, probably, never been hit like this, right? Somebody was saying — in fact, I was speaking with Governor Cuomo about it. Because we were in New York City — a place we love, New York State — with the World Trade Center. And that was approximately 3,000 people. Well, we’ve doubled that. In this same area, we’ve doubled that — more than doubled it, substantially more. And it’s obviously going. You know, we had our highest number yesterday and the day before. Okay. With all of this news, what would lead you to believe that we’re going to have the best stock market week — shortened week — in 50 years? Almost broke the all-time record. You know what that is? That’s a pent-up demand. Now, that’s my opinion. The other thing is we’re doing tremendous stimulus plans. And despite what you’re reading — you know, there’s back and forth, but we are getting along with the Democrats. They want to see something happen. We have to help our workers. We have to help our small businesses. We have to help — we have to help our restaurants. I think deductibility will be great for entertainment, restaurants, all of it. Look, I think, with the stimulus, with the people, with what we’ve got going, with all of the things — we’re going to be meeting with the airlines over the weekend. We have a great plan for the airlines. We’ve got to keep the airlines going. You know, it’s never been a great business, but it’s a very vital business for the country. We’re going to be meeting with Boeing. We’re going to be meeting with a lot of companies that are great companies and were great companies a short while ago. I mean, we can’t let anything happen to Boeing. It’s, you know, got so much potential. You talk about potential — can anything have more potential than that? So, we have a lot of very exciting things taking place. We have tremendous plans. We have tremendous stimulus. And I think we have a chance to do really well. So this quarter isn’t the quarter I’m looking at. Third quarter, we start to think about it. And I think fourth quarter is going to be at a level that, maybe, we haven’t seen before. I think our country — with the stimulus, with all that we’ve been through — we’ve learned a lot. Don’t forget, we’ve learned about pandemics and epidemics. We’ve learned a tremendous amount. And with all that we’ve learned — as an example, we’re making ventilators. We have thousands of them being delivered in the very near future. We have countries calling us: “Can we have ventilators?” That would have been an unthinkable call. I’d be — I wouldn’t know what to say. They have people dying, but we needed them for ourselves. We have plenty before the surge. In New York, they need far fewer hospital rooms or far fewer hospital beds, in particular, than we thought. And I have to say, Dr. Birx told me that four weeks ago, six weeks ago. I remember you said, “That number is too high. We don’t need that many.” And based on what she said, and others, we did what we had to do. We actually gave the maximum. We built Javits. We sent the ship in. We then made the ship COVID, because, you know, there weren’t a lot of people on the roads; you didn’t have the accidents that we thought — other unrelated accidents. There’s nobody driving. You know, normally you have a lot of car accidents. You have a lot of motorcycle accidents. You have people going to the hos- — we didn’t have that. We had almost none of it. So, a lot of things have happened. I think we have a chance to be stronger than before. I really do. I think the stimulus is very important. What we’re doing — I think it’s very, very important. Please, go ahead. Yeah. Well, it’s something that we’ve already suggested. We’re talking to them. Business interruption insurance. I’d like to see these insurance companies — you know, you have people that have paid — when I was in private, I had business interruption. When my business was interrupted through a hurricane or whatever it may be, I’d have business where I had it. I didn’t always have it. Sometimes I had it; sometimes I have a lot of different companies. But if I had it, I’d expect to be paid. You have people — I speak mostly to the restauranteurs, where they have a restaurant, they’ve been paying for 25, 30, 35 years — business interruption. They’ve never needed it. All of a sudden, they need it. And I’m very good at reading language. I did very well in these subjects. Okay? And I don’t see the word “pandemic” mentioned. Now, in some cases, it is. It’s an exclusion. But in a lot of cases, I don’t see it. I don’t see a reference, and they don’t want to pay up. I would like to see the insurance companies pay if they need to pay, if it’s fair. And they know what’s fair and I know what’s fair. I can tell you very quickly. But business interruption insurance, that’s getting a lot of money to a lot of people. And they’ve been paying for years. You know, sometimes they just started paying. But you have people that have never asked for business interruption insurance, and they’ve been paying a lot of money for a lot of years for the privilege of having it. And then when they finally need it, the insurance company says, “We’re not going to give it.” We can’t let that happen. Please, go ahead. Well, there’s not a lot of issues with this. Yeah. I got it. There’s not a lot. And it’s a good question. There’s not a lot of issues with testing. Certain sections of the — if we go to Iowa, we go to Nebraska, we go — and interestingly, Idaho is very interesting because they had a few breakouts, small breakouts. But they’re very, very capable states and they’re big distances. A lot of land. A lot of opening. You don’t need testing there, you know, where you have a state with a small number of cases. Some states with almost none. West Virginia hung in for a long time, as you know, with none — for a long time. So when you have that, you don’t need testing. You don’t have to test every person in the state of Iowa, as an example. You don’t have to test every single person to say, “Let’s open up and let’s get the tractors moving, and let’s get the corn,” and let’s open up all of the different things they do in that great state. You don’t need that. With that being said, if there’s a little hot corner someplace, we’ll be testing. But I think Deborah speaks to this very well. Same thing in New York. That’s what we talked to Governor Cuomo about this morning. We have the Abbott test, which is very quick and very easy. It goes very fast. Then we have a lesser test that we talked about where we can talk about a larger area. But you’re going to know — so we’re going to do testing, but you don’t need to test 325 to 350 million people, because, number one, it’s unnecessary. Vast numbers — vast areas of our country don’t need this. I think you agree with me on that. You just don’t need it. Now, we have certain hotspots. So, Louisiana is a hotspot. New York is a hotspot. Detroit is a hotspot. And then you have certain areas in certain hotspots that you have to even go more so. And we’re doing all of that. Remember this: We’ve done more testing than any country in the world. And we have the best tests. And we’ve developed this over a very short period of time. Please. Go ahead. Yes. Sure. Well, we do have a plan. And one of the things I’m most proud about is what I’ve been able to do for the African American community: the lowest job numbers in the history of our country. This was — Excuse me. Yeah. Just before the virus came — well, I’m just saying, because you know, this has been here for three weeks, right? So, just before, African American community had the lowest unemployment, the best employment numbers. More African American people and communities have been thriving. If you look at our Opportunity Zones and what we did — Tim Scott, who’s fantastic, a fantastic senator, came to me: Opportunity Zones. More jobs for African Americans than ever before. Better healthcare than they’ve ever had before. All of these things. The Surgeon General spoke to it, and he spoke to it, I thought, really brilliantly. I found it very interesting what he said. And I’d love you to come up and answer the second part of her question because I think you’re — you would do a much better job than I would. Please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. Would you like to add anything to it? Because you are really — you expressed it very beautifully before. And I can tell you Jerome has done a fantastic job — our Surgeon General. I just hope nobody steals him and he goes to one of these big companies for a fortune. Don’t leave us. Right? Don’t leave us, Jerome. Please. He’s doing a great — you are happy and you’re doing a great job. And everybody — everybody tells me that too. So we appreciate it. Please. Well, that’s individual freedoms, problems and — — a lot of other things. Is it something we’re going to look at it? Certainly. And we know they’ve done that. And it’s highly — it’s very new. New technology. It’s very interesting. But a lot of people worry about it in terms of a person’s freedom. We’re going to take a look at that. A very strong look at it. We’ll let you know pretty soon. Brand new. Yes, please. Well, we’re going to talk about the WHO next week in great detail. I didn’t want to do it today — Good Friday. I didn’t want to do it before Easter. I also didn’t want to do it before we have all the facts. But over the years, many years, we’ve been paying them from 300 to 500, and even more, million dollars a year. China has been paying them less than 40 over the years. So we’re paying them more than 10 times more than China. And they are very, very China-centric, as I said during the week. China-centric. China always seems the to get the better of the — the argument, and I don’t like that. I really don’t like that. I don’t think that’s appropriate. I don’t think it’s fair to the American people. And, you know, I tell that to President Xi. I tell that to Dr. Tedros. I spoke to him one time. I think he’s a very nice man. I liked him. But we’re going to be talking about that next week in great detail. We’re looking at it very, very closely. We want to make sure money is properly spent. But again, why is the United States paying $500 million a year? It’s a lot. And why is — okay? That’s a lot. And why is China paying — last year, this year — $42 million? But generally under $40 [million]. So it’s in the 30s. So we’re at 500, 452, 400, 401 — different amounts, different years. And they’re at 40, 38, 36, 35, 32, 31. No, no. But — but you have to ask yourself that question. And then the answer always turns out to be in China’s favor. Well, I have the same thing with the World Trade. Isn’t it interesting? World Trade. So we have World Health and we have World Trade. So we have the World Trade Organization. And until I came along, we were losing cases — so many cases. It was ridiculous. We were always losing these cases. I mean, almost every case. And now we’re winning cases. We just won $7 billion because they know I’m not going to put up with it. China has been — unbelievably taken advantage of us and other countries. You know, for instance, they’re considered a developing nation. I said, “Well, then make us a developing nation too.” They get big advantages because they’re a developing nation. India, a developing nation. The United States is the big developed nation. Well, we have plenty of development to do. Okay? And now we’re winning cases because they know that if we’re not treated fairly, I’m going to pull out. Now, you never heard this before because nobody ever talked about the World Trade Organization. But the World Trade Organization has treated us very unfairly. But they know I’m not going to put up with it because all of these countries are taking advantage of the United States. Now, in the courts and the court system, we’re not approving new judges over the last year. We’re not going to approve them. And Bob Lighthizer is working very hard on that. But we had always a minority position, meaning numbers of judges. So we’d have a minority number of judges. I said, “How do you win with a minority number of judges?” But all of a sudden, we’re winning. And the reason we’re winning is they know if they don’t treat us properly — and we won $7 billion just this very recently. And the money is pouring in. And we won other cases too. We won a lot of cases. But you know from covering it — I know you know — that the United States was taken advantage of by the World Trade Organization. And, by the way, speaking of China: If you look at the history of China, it was only since they went into the World Trade Organization that they became a rocket ship with their economy. They were flat-lined for years and years. Frankly, for many, many decades. And it was only when they came into the World Trade Organization that they became a rocket ship because they took advantage of all there is. I’m not even blaming them. I’m saying, how stupid were the people that stood here and allowed it to happen? But we don’t allow that to happen. And if they don’t treat us fairly, we’ll leave. But now we’re starting to win cases. How about somebody new for a change? Come on. Go ahead. Well, I have a lot of confidence in Ron DeSantis, a lot of faith in Ron DeSantis to make the right decision. He’s doing a great job as governor. Ron DeSantis, I had read where he’s thinking about opening up the schools earlier than the date — the end of the month. I’d have to look at the numbers. But again, you know, I like to allow governors to make decisions without overruling them, because from a constitutional standpoint, that’s the way it should be done. If I disagreed, I would overrule a governor, and I have that right to do it. But I’d rather have them — you can call it “federalist,” you can call it “the Constitution,” but I call it “the Constitution.” I would rather have them make their decisions. But he’s made a lot of good decisions. And he hasn’t said he’s going to, but he’s thinking about it. So I’ll take a look at it. Well, I think the answer is obvious, but if you want, either — would you want to just talk about that maybe? Tony? I know. I can see. I think — I think they know the answer to that. Go ahead, please. Depending on the outbreak, yeah. Depending. And that’s happened, as you know, with a couple of countries. You know what I’m doing? I’m watching other countries. In many cases, they’re ahead of us from the standpoint that it attacked them before us. It hit them first. And I’m watching what’s happening with respect to certain other countries — some of them obvious, some of them less obvious — and what they’re doing and the success that they’re having. And that’s going to play a large part of the role. I’m also — we’re also setting up a council of very, very great doctors and business people. We’re going to be announcing it on Tuesday — of some great people. The — Beyond — this is beyond economic. This is really — I call it, “The Opening Our Country Task Force” or “Opening Our Country Council,” so we don’t get it confused with Mike’s task force, which has done so great. And we’re going to have the great business leaders, great doctors. We’re going to have a great group of people. We’ll probably do it by teleconference, because we don’t really want them traveling in, for their own purposes. I don’t think it would look good, also. But we don’t want them traveling in. So we’ll do teleconference. We did one the other day with the banks, and it was very successful — the teleconference itself. And we’ll be announcing names on Tuesday, who’s on that. And that’ll play a role. But ultimately, I have to make that decision. And then I’ll have to make a decision: Do we close a little area that’s a hotspot? I do say this, Jim: I want to get it open as soon as possible. This country was meant to be open and vibrant and great, not where people are, you know, staying in. No, I’m not — I am — I would love to open it. I’m not determined anything. The facts are going to determine what I do. But we do want to get the country open. So important. So I’ll have a task force. I’ll have a council. It’s going to be announced on Tuesday with names that you have a lot of respect for, a lot of great names. Different businesses, different people. Top — Bipartisan? I didn’t even ask. I mean, honestly, I think it’s bipartisan. The one thing I didn’t ask, “Are you Republican or a Democrat?” Hard to believe, but I didn’t ask. So it would be. And I want their views on what they think. Also, very important, different parts of the country. Because if you go to the Midwest, it’s different than perhaps the East Coast or the West Coast. Now, the West Coast, those numbers are, really, pretty amazing on the West Coast. It’s very interesting. So we’re going to be announcing that in a very short while. Probably Tuesday. Go ahead. Please. Well, what we’re doing — we have a tremendous force out there — a naval force — and we’re blocking the shipment of drugs. So maybe what they’re doing is stopping ships that they want to look. We’re not blocking. What we’re doing is we’re making sure — we don’t want drugs in our country. And especially with the over 160 miles of wall — it’s getting very hard to get through the border. They used to drive right through the border like they owned it, and in a certain way, they did. They could drive right — they had human trafficking. They had — all of a sudden, they have a powerful wall up, and they’re not driving through that wall. That wall is tough and it’s also loaded up with equipment — cameras and sensors and everything you can think of. On top of that, we have drones flying back and forth over it. So — so it’s in very — a very powerful — it’s a very powerful barrier between Mexico and the United States. A lot of people though — what they’re doing now is they’re trying to come in through the waterways, whether it’s the Gulf or the ocean itself. And what we’re doing is we’re being very tough. And we’re being tough because of drugs and also human trafficking. And remember, the human trafficking is mostly females. It’s mostly females. It’s horrible. And what we’re seeing is horrible. But you have a big — we have a human trafficking — human trafficking problem worldwide, the likes of which — you know, you think of it as an ancient thing. It’s not ancient. It’s bigger now than it’s ever been before, over the last 10 years, because of the Internet. The Internet made human trafficking to the extent that it is now, which is massive. The Internate [sic] — the Internet made it so big. So, we are — we have a big naval force that’s stopping. So maybe when you mention that, maybe their ships are getting caught. But we are — we’re stopping a lot of ships, and we’re finding a lot of drugs. Yeah, please. Well, I meant you, but that’s okay. Go head. We’ll do this. Go ahead. Yeah. You’re talking about the new — Yeah, 250. I’d rather have that be in phase four. I don’t deny it; I think it’s fine. But I think it should be in phase four. And I think we should have infrastructure, and I think we should have a payroll tax moratorium, because that’s something that, over a period of time, the workers get, you know, sort of semi-immediately. It’s over that period of time. It starts immediately, but it’s over a period of time. I mean, there are a lot of people — I’m one of them — that would have liked to have seen the payroll tax cut as a permanent cut. But we should do the double-edged — meaning, business-employee payroll tax cut. So we’re talking about that. And I’m certainly okay with helping the states and helping the hospitals. I just think — because, look, the hospitals need help; you see what they’ve gone through. And the states need help. Some states in particular need help. They need big help. I’m willing to look at that very strongly. But I like looking at it in phase four. The 251 is actually — the plan is working out well. The banks are getting started with the distribution. They’ve taken hund- — thousands and thousands of applications. The numbers aren’t even believable, the number of applications. They’re swamped. But Bank of America and Wells Fargo, and, I guess, Citi — Citibank is just now kicking in. And also what nobody is talking about, the commercial banks — the community banks. Everyone is talking commercial banks. The community banks are doing tremendous volumes. And they’re probably doing them faster, from what I understand. I hear the community banks, frankly, are the easiest ones in terms of getting the money out. So the money is getting out. The applications are far beyond what we ever anticipated. And that’s what we’re — that’s why we’re going. Because this is money that goes, essentially, to the workers. We want the businesses to hold on to their workers, because once they lose the workers, they’re never opening again. It’s not going to happen. Okay, in the back. Well, there’s no real cost because we’re agreeing to produce a little bit less. So, number one, it’s staying in the ground. You have it. You have it for another day. It’s actually cheaper than storing it, where you take it out and you deliver it to a massive well, like the Strategic Reserves — our National Strategic Reserves where it has to be brought there. And that’s, you know, an expensive process in itself. But oil is getting to a point where, I mean, there are some areas — some people would say the water is more valuable than the oil. You never thought you’re going to see that. You never thought having covered — I know you cover it — you never thought you’d be seeing oil at $20 a barrel, but how about $10 a barrel? That, you never thought you’d see. So we are looking at it very strongly. There is no real cost. I was helping Mex- — I want to help Mexico out. We have a great relationship with Mexico, a great relationship with the President. I really like him a lot. He’s been terrific to us on the border because he stopped — he stopped — you don’t see the caravans coming up anymore. You don’t see all the problems. When I took office, it was unbelievable what was going on. And they are really — they have been helping us a lot, and we’ve been helping them a lot. You know, they make product for us, they sell it to us, and it’s fine. It’s a good relationship. It’s — and sometimes it’s a great relationship. So, he could not have done any more than that. And I think there was political reasons for that — for him — that other — other nations don’t have. They don’t have that. You know, the nations that we’re talking about — the 22 other nations that we’re talking about — they just don’t have that problem. So, it doesn’t cost us anything, and yet it’s very valuable. We will be reimbursed in the future — maybe in the near future, maybe in the more distant future. But we’ll be reimbursed by Mexico in a certain way, and it’ll be fine. But we get Mexico over the hump. Now with all of that being said, that doesn’t mean the deal is going to happen anyway, because they still have a lot of different states. But this was one of the stumbling blocks. Okay? Go ahead. Well, look, the way I view it is this: China has taken advantage of the United States for 30 years. Okay? I mentioned the World Trade Organization. China has taken advantage of us through that and using rules that are unfair to the United States. And they should have never been allowed — this should have never been allowed to happen. When China joined and was allowed to join under those circumstances — the World Trade Organization — that was a very bad day for the United States because they had rules and regulations that were far different and far easier than our rules and regulations. Plus, they took advantage of them down to the last — and you know China and you studied China and you know what I mean. They took advantage of them like very few people would even think to take advantage of them. And again, they are considered — right? — a developing nation. We are not considered a developing nation. They’ve given advantages. Okay. For many years, China has ripped off the United States. And then I came along. And right now, as you know, China is paying 25 percent, and we’ve taken in billions and billions and billions of dollars in tariffs from China. And I know a lot of the people kept saying, “Oh, no. We’re paying.” Well, we’re not paying. You know, countries are different. Not every country is China. But China would devalue their currency, and they’d also pour out money. And they, essentially, were paying most of those tariffs, not us. And, as you know, we’ve taken in tens of billions of dollars. They targeted our farmers. But we took in so much money that I was able to give back. One year it was $12 billion. One year was $16 billion. I was able to give back our farmers the money that they were targeted — hurt. China bought $12 billion and bought $16 billion — one year, 12; one year, 16. I was able to give them back the 12, and then give them back the 16 — the farmers. And they weren’t targeted, and they’re all in business. Now we’re doing it because they got targeted in a different way. Now, I’m going to be very interested to see. So we signed a deal with China. And under that deal, they’re supposed to buy substantially in excess of $200 billion from us. That’s not only farm product, it’s manufacturing product, it’s lots of different things. They’re going to buy a lot. I just want to see if they live up to that deal. I know President Xi. I would say he would live up to the deal. But remember this: I never took off the tariff. It’s still 25 percent. That’s a big — 25 percent of $250 billion dollars. So, for the first time — and you saw also — now again, I’m going before the virus hit. Because that’s sort of like — that’s like, “Let’s start all over again.” Okay? I can’t tell you that yet, because that chapter hasn’t been written yet. But go up a few weeks ago, the deficit with the United States and China was coming way down. Nobody has seen that. Nobody has ever seen that before. But the deficit has come way down. So, now we start a new chapter. And I can only tell you, if a smart person is standing where I’m standing, we’re going to do very well with China. Okay? And I think it’s — I have to also say this: I think our relationship, and having the relationship I have with China is a good thing. But for the first time, we’re benefiting instead of being the sucker that could — you know, that got taken advantage of for years. Nobody. You know, I said to China, “How did this ever happen?” I got to know them very well. I said to them — representatives of China at the top level, you know who I’m talking about — I say, “How did this ever happen?” They looked at me and they said, “But nobody ever called us.” We didn’t have a deal. It’s not like we had a bad deal. We had worse: We didn’t have any deal at all, so they just took advantage. Think of it: $500-billion-a-year deficit. Not — $500 million is a lot of money, right? It’s not — everyone thinks I’ve made a mistake when I say “$500 trillion.” “No, you mean $500 million.” “No, I said 500-billion-dollar-a-year deficit with China for a long time.” But it was 200. It was 300. It was 400. It was 500 — 556 billion, 507. Five-hundred-billion-dollars-plus-a-year deficit with China. Now I’m charging them tariffs. And, you know, it’s very interesting. A lot of people that don’t want to do that — they all agreed because China has taken advantage of this country like nobody has ever taken. We have built China with the money we gave them. Now, I give them a lot of credit. Okay? I give them a lot of credit. They did it. But you know what? We made it a hell of a lot easier. We gave them a fortune. Go ahead. How about you in the back? Yes. Good. Sure. Go ahead. A little louder, please. Have I been tested for antibodies? Not that I know of. I’ve had some tests. No? They tell me “no.” I’ll accept it. That’ll come out. They’ve just developed those tests. They’re sort of new. Yeah. Well, the aid hasn’t been given yet. But they will be asking, in my opinion. They haven’t even asked yet. Boeing has not asked for aid yet. But I think they probably will. Now, at the same time, they do have to run a company. You know, this isn’t a great time to sell airplanes. Let’s not kid ourselves, okay? If you’re a businessperson. Boeing makes airplanes. They had a big problem with one, but they make the greatest airplanes. They make the best airplanes in the world. They had the problem with one. They got it too complex. It becomes so complex you have to be number one in your class at MIT to be able to fly it. It’s a mistake. Every two years, they want to make it more and more. I mean, they had great success with the 737 — the Boeing 737. Then, all of a sudden, they do the Max. And they say, “Let’s make it more complicated. Let’s put on different engines. Let’s do this. Let’s do that.” It was not exactly a good decision. A bad decision. Very, bad — a horrible decision. Number one, human lives. And number two, horrible what’s happened to the company. Here’s a company — from a business standpoint, it was like probably the greatest company in the world, in my opinion. I think it amounts to 1 percent of GDP. Some people say it’s a half. I think it’s 1. But here’s one of the greatest companies anyway in the world. Maybe, the greatest. And boom. Now, on top of what happened there with the two planes — and they say they have that fixed. That’s good. They say they have it fixed undisputably. In fact, somebody said — they gave me something — I said, “You should say it that way.” They said, “Sir, this is now the safest airplane in the air.” I said — “That’s what you should say. That’s a very good statement: It’s the safest airplane in the air. That’s a very good statement. You should use it.” I said, “By the way, are you changing the name? But whether you do or not, you should use that.” But he said that. A Boeing person said to me, “It’s the safest airplane in the air.” That’s a great thing. But we know they’re going to need help. Now, does that mean they’re going to need help, and they should keep people that they absolutely don’t need? That business is a very cyclical business, like many businesses, frankly. So that determination hasn’t been made. They have not spoken to us, yet. I think they will be. Maybe they won’t need help. That’ll be great. Look, Boeing made so much money — who would’ve — who would’ve thought they could have made all of those planes that are parked all over the place? In many cases, I guess payment is not made. But who would have thought they could do that and they’re still a solvent company, okay? I mean, what a tragic thing — happened in numerous ways, but also economically. So, when they see us, making sure that Boeing is strong again is very, very powerful and very important. And we’ll do whatever is necessary to do. Please. Should we keep this going, everybody? Jim wants to leave. Keep it going for a while, yes? If we have time, if you want. Should I — you’re not going to criticize me that the conference was too long? You know, if I leave short — yesterday, I left short. “It was too short.” If stay too long, they say, “It was too long.” Someday, we’re going to get it just right. Okay. Should we continue? Should we continue? Yes? Okay. Let’s at least do your question. That’s not a bad point. I have not. No. I have a call, just to wish him well to his — to his group. No, I don’t want to be calling him now. I want him to get better. He’s a great guy. He’s become a friend of mine — a real friend of mine. You know, he has a great feeling for our country. For — obviously, for his country. He loves it. He’s — he’s a tremendous guy. He’s become — I think, he’s probably, right now — he was very high to start. I think he might be 100 percent popularity right now. I think he’s — you know, when they talk about approval polls, right? You ever hear that term? I’m sure you never heard that. I hear it all the time. His approval rating must be about 300 percent. But he’s a — he’s a great guy. He was a great guy before and I think people see what he’s been through. What he has been through is incredible. And they say a “big turn.” So let’s see what happens. Let’s hope. Something like — excuse me? Well, I see a lot of — yeah. I see a lot of different things. We’re going — we have to be very careful for who comes into the country. Look, my opposition party wants to have open borders. This is a case where I’m very glad that my position is: I don’t want open borders. I want very strong borders. That includes not only on the southern border — our southern border with Mexico, and you could also say our northern border with Canada — but we want to have strong borders. And, I think, this is maybe one of the learning points. We learned something about borders. We need borders. A country needs borders to be a great country. And this is, I think, this is a great point. Go ahead. Do you have something else? You mean, once they get better? Okay. So, they have the disease and they’re better and they have the immunity now. They have — supposedly, according to what I am hearing, it could be for a long period. It could be for a lifetime. It could also be for a for a year or two, I’m hearing, Tony. So nobody has told me yet if it’s for a year, if it’s for two years, or if it’s for a lifetime. Like chickenpox — they say if you have chickenpox, you have immunity, they say, for a lifetime. I hope that’s true. But — but nobody has actually told me with certainty, maybe because they don’t know yet — You don’t know yet. Because it’s new. You know, this came upon us. Nobody knew. We just — we’re just — they do know you have it for a period of time and it’s strong for a period of time. They don’t know — and that’s, hence the antibodies that we’re making. I saw somebody who was really sick, and he got better — a young person, a relatively young person — 35 and physically fit, you know. And he — he got better. He made it. Barely, but he made it. His first thing that he did when he was better is, “I want to give — I want to give whatever I can give to help other people because nobody should go through it.” It’s a tough — it’s a tough thing. So we don’t know yet how long — if you’d like to add anything to that. But we don’t know yet. Is it a year? It will be a year. But is it more than a year? And only time is going to tell. Okay? Thank you. Go ahead. Try one more. Yeah, I think so. I think we’re going to put some governors. I’ve gained great respect for governors, both Republican and Democrat. I’ve actually become friends with some of the Democrat governors that I wouldn’t have really had the privilege of getting to know. And Governor Murphy of New Jersey is a very liberal guy. I’m not. But we’ve had a great relationship. John Bel, as you know — I call him “John Bel” — John Bel Edwards. People call him “John Bel.” It’s sort of a cool name — from Louisiana. I have a very good relationship with him. Gavin Newsom. Honestly, I think we’ve fight on every — hey, we’re fighting right now. I want automobiles to be made cheaper and safer and stronger. And — but you save three, four thousand dollars per automobile. And environmentally equal, or better, maybe. And we’re fighting on that. We’re fighting a lot of different things. We fight on the border. He wants open borders. I want — I want people to come into our country legally. But I’ve gotten very friendly with Gavin Newsom. He’s done a very good job here. I think I’ve gotten very friendly. I mean, he’s been, I think, sort of a friend of mine for a long time. Don’t get to see him much. But Governor Cuomo of New York — we talk all the time. I told you, I spoke to him literally the last call, just before walking in here. I’ve gotten to — I’ve really developed a lot of good friendships with the governors and, including governors of I think — Mike DeWine, Republican, but I think he’s done a great job in Ohio. So, yeah, I want to put on both parties. I want to have some governors. I’m not going to have all of the governors, but I’d like to put some representative governors on the council. Yes, I would like to do that. I have. I’ve asked a couple of them. They’ve all said yes. So far, everyone said yes. I think everybody would like to be on that council. That’s a very important council. Go ahead, in the back. You haven’t gone yet. You’re going to have to say it louder. To those what? Oh, the pastors. I didn’t understand your word. Okay, you have a very nice voice but it’s a little bit low, and you’re far back. I’ve had talks with the pastors, and most of the pastors agree — and this is a very complex subject, let’s face it, you know, for the obvious reasons. I don’t have to go into it. And most of the pastors agree that they are better off doing what they’re doing, which is distancing. They feel that, “Let’s get this over with,” and they want to get back to church so badly. I mean, can you imagine? We have Easter Sunday and I’m going to be watching Pastor Robert Jeffress, who’s been a great guy, that I tell you. He’s been a great guy, and I’m going to be watching on a laptop. Now, a laptop is not the same as being in his church or being in another church. It’s not, no matter what you say. You know, we can say, “Oh, isn’t it wonderful?” But I’ve done this for three weeks, and they’ve had tremendous — I let people know who it is. They’ve had the biggest audiences they’ve ever had. They have millions of people now watching, and people are really liking what they’re hearing. So I’m going to be with, on Easter, Pastor — I don’t even know if he knows it yet, but he will soon. I think he will in about two minutes. Pastor Robert Jeffress. And he’s a terrific guy, a terrific man. I’ve gotten to know him very well. He’s a man of great compassion. He loves our country. And I’m going to be with him on Easter — meaning I’m going to be with him, watching on a laptop. Doesn’t sound good, but it’s, you know, it’s one of those things — it cannot be church. You know, I’m not going to get into it. It cannot be church. Most pastors and most people of faith — people that we listen to and respect and admire. Franklin Graham is a person I have great respect for. Most people will — and who’s done an incredible job in New York on Central Park, where they put up Samaritan’s Purse. He’s done an incredible job. The son of the late, great Billy Graham. His family is incredible. He’s incredible. Franklin Graham, the job he’s doing on — I mean, he loves to do it. He has such a passion. And that’s why he’s so good at it. He does it with — with incredible love. And he will tell you — we’re all saying, “We’ve got to get our country cured.” I know there are some pastors and ministers and others that want to get together. I would — and I have great respect for them. Two of them I know. But I would say first heal — I’m a Christian — heal our country. Let’s get healed before we do this. And there’s time to do that. We’ll do it for hopefully the rest of our lives. Please. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. So the Mercy and the Comfort were sent when projections were much higher. And I say it — Tony backed it up, Deborah made the statement — they said you’re not going to need these many rooms, but we wanted to be prepared. I mean, you know, we had the ship. They did an incredible job with — the Comfort was supposed to be in maintenance for a period of four weeks and they hadn’t done in three and a half, four days. And it came up. And so we had it there. If there was a disaster from the standpoint of you needed all of the — now, I’ll tell you, the Javits Center — Andrew will tell you, we were ready to go. It’s incredible, the job they did. But they’re — they’re using less beds. This is a good thing, not a bad thing. They’re using less beds. Now, Javits has been pretty busy over the last couple of days. And the death numbers are horrific. But you go back now and you’re finding they’re going to start to come down very substantially just based on the fact that the bed usage, the number of beds are much, much less. Much, much less. So the Mercy and the Comfort were there in case they needed them. Los Angeles, where you have the one and New York where you the other, they just don’t — fortunately, we haven’t hit numbers where they would have need, they would have been used. They’re always going to be sort of overflow because they’re on the edges. You know, they’re not as convenient as certain places. But the people were ready, willing, and able. They were ready to go. They were going to do a great job. But fortunately we don’t need — just like we didn’t need as many ventilators. When they were asking in New York for 40,000 ventilators, I had experts — these people, I listened to them — they said you’ll never need that many. And they were right. And New York now has it’s — and I dealt really well Mayor de Blasio. We got him a lot of ventilators. We got Andrew a lot of ventilators. But we never felt you needed the numbers that you were talking about and we were right on that. Now, with all of that being said, we have a lot of ventilators ready to go. We have almost 10,000 in the stockpile. That 10,000 can move rapidly. We can be within 24 hours almost anywhere. And hopefully we’re not going to have to be but it’s just — it’s really — this has been a great military operation. It hasn’t all been military because we’re dealing with great companies. We have companies that are making masks. We’re — and we’re all set up in the masks too. I just told you we have an order coming in soon: 500 million masks. 500 million. We have companies — you know the story with GM — or 3M — also GM, but 3M is doing a great job. I spoke to the CEO the other day. We settled it out. We had a dispute with them. And it’s now all settled. And I think they’re trying to show the country something — maybe me, but the country something. So, we’ve done, you know, I think — and not me. I’m not talking about me. This country, our country, the people that are doing it: Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA, these people sitting right here, people that we have in the back that are watching every word that we’re saying — they’ve done a fantastic job. They really have done a fantastic job. Please. Well, what do we have — What do we have? 350 million people? You’re going to do $350- — Well, you’re asking that because of what happened — it’s a fair question, too — what happened in Denver. Because in Denver, I’ve never seen — I said, “What’s going on?” We’re looking at this graph where everything’s looking beautiful and it’s coming down and then you got this one spike. It’s — I said, “What happened to Denver?” And many people, very quickly, and they — by the way, they were on it like, so fast, you wouldn’t believe it. They knew every aspect. They had people go and — not only testing, “Who did you see? Where were you? How many people did you meet? Were you out to dinner in somebody else’s home? Where were you?” Where did — where did this number of people come from? How did — they are totally on it. Now, this just happened. I just saw it this morning. I’m looking at everything smooth, going down, topping out. And then you have this one spike in Denver. It’s like, where did this come from? So we’ll be looking at that. And we don’t want cases like that happening. This was — but this — this is the kind of thing can happen. This is very complex. This is a very brilliant enemy. You know, it’s a brilliant enemy. They develop drugs like the antibiotics. You see it. Antibiotics used to solve every problem. Now one of the biggest problems the world has is the germ has gotten so brilliant that the antibiotic can’t keep up with it. And they’re constantly trying to come up with a new — people go to a hospital and they catch — they go for a heart operation — that’s no problem, but they end up dying from — from problems. You know the problems I’m talking about. There’s a whole genius to it. We’re fighting — not only is it hidden, but it’s very smart. Okay? It’s invisible and it’s hidden, but it’s — it’s very smart. And you see that in a case like a Denver. But, you know, I think we’re doing well, and they’re on Denver like you wouldn’t believe. I came in this morning; it was a flurry. I said what’s going on? They said, “Denver.” I said, “What happened to Denver?” Because Denver was doing pretty well. And they’ve got that under control. But, yeah, that would be a case where you do some very big testing. Peter. Number one, I love them. Number two, we’re working really hard. It wasn’t their fault, what happened. Sometimes they don’t do a good job and they lose their job. That’s one thing. This is a case where we take the strongest economy in the history of the world, which is what we had. More people working in the United States, Peter, than ever before. Almost — I mean, look at the numbers: 160 million people, almost. Just short of 160. Excuse me. So, we have the greatest economy we’ve ever had. And, by the way, black unemployment, Hispanic unemployment, Asian unemployment — the best numbers we’ve ever had in virtually every way. And then you get hit like this, and it’s traumatic. People that had great jobs, that went out to dinner, and they didn’t have any problems, they’d take their family, they were making good salaries, all of a sudden — you know, you use the term, “cold turkey.” It’s cold turkey. They go from that to having no money and waiting for their checks, which are being processed very rapidly. But they still — they have to go out and look for money. It’s a terrible thing. All I say is: We love them, we’re working so hard, and they’re going to be back. And I hope they’re going to be back even stronger than before. Yeah. Yeah — no, it’s really — the states can do things if they want. I can override it if I want. But the national stay-at-home — just so you understand, 95 percent of the country is stay-at-home. Like, as an example, I was speaking with the great governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, the other day. He has a stay-at-home. A lot of people didn’t even know it, but he had a stay-at -home. Some people reported Texas wasn’t. He had a very strong — actually, a very strong stay-at-home. Ninety-five to ninety-six percent in South Carolina, as you know, has it, which at one point, a week ago, they didn’t have. South Carolina — another great governor — McMaster. No, 95 percent of the country is covered. Now, the states that aren’t — and again, constitutionally, from a federalist standpoint, if I thought there was a problem, if I saw a state with a problem, I would absolutely demand it. But they’re doing great. And the states that aren’t are states that have not had a big problem. Yeah, I have — I have great authority if I want to use it. I would rather have the states use it. I would rather — And this is so shocking for me. A lot of people are saying, “Wow, he’s really very reasoned, isn’t he?” A lot of people are shocked. They think I do a — I have absolute authority to use it. But, so far, our relationship with governors and the job they’re doing, I haven’t had to do it. Would I do it if I saw a state that was out of control and they didn’t have the stay-at-home policy? I would do it in a heartbeat. Jeff. Yeah. It’s a very big decision. I don’t know that I’ve had a bigger decision than that, when you think. Right? I mean, think of that decision. Somebody said, “It’s totally up to the President.” I saw it this morning. It’s totally up — and it is. I don’t know that I’ve had a bigger decision. But I’m going to surround myself with the greatest minds. Not only the greatest minds, but the greatest minds in numerous different businesses, including the business of politics and reason. And we’re going to make a decision, and hopefully it’s going to be the right decision. I will say this: I want to get it open as soon as we can. We have to get our country open, Jeff. The metrics right here. That’s my metrics. That’s all I can do. I can listen to 35 people. At the end, I got to make a decision. And I didn’t think of it until yesterday. I said, “You know, this is a big decision.” But I want to be guided. I’m going to be guided by them. I’m going to be guided by our Vice President. I’m going to make a decision based on a lot of different opinions. Some will maybe disagree, and some I’d love to see it where they don’t disagree. Will there be risks? There’s always going to be a risk that something can flare up. There’s always going to — look, look at what’s happening where countries are trying to get open and there’s a flare-up and they’ll go. But I’d like the flare-up to be very localized so that we can control it from a local standpoint without having to close. It’s — it’s — there’s always a risk. This is a — this is genius that we’re fighting. You know, we’re fighting this hidden enemy, which is genius. Okay? It’s genius, the way it’s attacked so many countries at so many different angles. And — I mean, you take a look at what’s going on. And the greatest doctors in the world — I think they’re close, by the way, but they haven’t figured it out yet. Look what it’s done to some people. I mean, some people it’s grabbed, and it’s a — it’s a horrible — it’s a horrible way to go, if you want to know the truth. It’s a horrible — and then other people, it hardly has an impact on. We talked about it; it’s the sniffles. It’s less. They don’t even know they had anything. And some people — I looked at New York this morning, and I look at what’s happening and the amount of people that are dying and dying — violently dying. It’s — it’s a — it’s a very tough adversary. But we’re going to win, and we’re going to win it — we’re going to win it very decisively. I’m going to have to make a decision, and I only hope to God that it’s the right decision. But I would say, without question, it’s the biggest decision I’ve ever had to make. Want to answer that? I just want to say that, you know, you talked about, “Couldn’t it lead to death,” meaning, if you open up, it could lead to death. And you’re right. But you know what? Staying at home leads to death also. And it’s very traumatic for this country. But staying at home — if you look at numbers — that leads to a different kind of death, perhaps, but it leads to death also. So it’s a very big decision. As I say, it’s the biggest decision I’ll ever make. All right, we’ll do a couple of more and we’ll go. Thank you. Yes. Well, you know, the other side seems to keep using that. And I have used it. You know, I’ve enacted it, you do know. And I’ve used it — some people thought viciously. Just ask a couple of companies. If you want, you can just look up the names. And I’m surprised that he would have said that. We actually have great tests. We have others under development. You don’t need full testing, as the doctors have been talking about ad nauseam. So I would be surprised that he would have said that, meaning it that way. If he — if he did, I’d have a much different type answer. Go ahead. We talked about testing, yeah. We did talk about testing. And one of the things I did was I put the two doctors in charge of that call. I said, “You know what, Andrew? I have two very talented people standing here. We’re getting ready to go on. Let me put them and let me have them talk to you.” And they talked to him, really, at length. And I think by the time they finished, he understood what he was — what we were saying. He understood it very clearly. Okay? Yeah. Yeah, I understand. Yeah, I understand the question very well. Look, nobody has done to China, or treated China as strongly as I have. I use the word “strongly.” As you know — you’ve reported on it — billions and billions of dollars is flowing into our Treasury, because of what I’ve done with China. I think it’s a very sad thing that happened. And I think if people knew, including the World Health Organization — and I do believe they knew, but they didn’t want to tell the world. And we’re going to get to the bottom of it. And we’ll have reports on all of this. And we are — we are not happy about it, but I wanted to leave the World Health for later. And I can tell you that we’re constantly in touch with China. We’re talking to China. And we’ve expressed how we felt. We’re not happy about it. We’re not happy about it at all, Kristen. Okay, one or two more. Yeah, Jim. No happy talk today. Why would you “no”? Look, the answer is “yes.” I think the answer is yes. I think the answer is yes. Who — who said no to that? No, no, you’re saying no, but who said no? But you asked, “Do we have enough masks?” Yes. No, you didn’t say that. You said, “Do we have enough masks?” Yes. “Do we have enough tests?” Yes. Plus, we’re developing new tests. “Do we have enough — do we have enough ventilators?” Yes. “Do we have enough hospital beds?” Yes. We’ve built 20,000 hospital beds. We have enough hospital beds. Go ahead, Jim. Let’s go. You know what I say? Well, a lot of it’s fake news. A lot of it’s fake news. A lot of it’s fake news. Let me just tell you — The governors — the governors reported — The governor — yeah, depending on your air, they always say that, because otherwise you’re not going to put them on. Let me just tell you something: The governors have said — last night, they had a group of governors, 14 governors. They were together someplace, and they said, “It’s been unbelievable what’s happened.” We’ve been totally responsive. Ventilators — everyone has the ventilators they need, to a point where we’re getting calls from foreign countries saying, “You have all the ventilators. Can we get some? And we’re going to try and help some of these countries. These people have done an incredible job. This is not happy talk. Maybe it’s happy talk for you. It’s not happy talk for me. We’re talking about death. We’re talking about the greatest economy in the world. One day I have to close it off. And we did the right thing, because maybe it would have been 2 million people died instead of whatever that final number will be, which could be 60, could be 70, could be 75, could be 55. Thousands of people have died. There’s nothing happy about it, Jim. This is sad talk. This is the saddest — these are the saddest — these are the saddest news conferences that I’ve ever had. I don’t like doing them. You know why? Because I’m talking about death. I’m talking about taking the greatest economy ever created — we had the greatest numbers we’ve ever had in almost every aspect of economics, from employment, to companies doing — look at the airlines. They were having the best year. Now, all of a sudden, we have to save them. Okay? There’s no happy talk, Jim. This is the real deal. And I’ve got to make the biggest decision of my life. And I’ve only started thinking about that. I mean, you know, I’ve made a lot of big decisions over my life. You understand that. This is, by far, the biggest decision of my life, because I have to say, “Okay, let’s go. This is what we’re going to do.” Sure. But you have many doctors that say “unbelievable job.” I watched this morning, and I watched a certain network, and it wasn’t Fox, and you had doctors saying that we’ve done an incredible job. You just read off these “no, no, no.” Well, we have ventilators. We have equipment. We have beds. How about beds? I mean, Governor Cuomo just told me, a little while ago, he’s got plenty of beds. In fact, they’re having a hard time filling Javits Center. We built them 2,900 beds. So that’s not a fair question. Jim, look — Jim. Jim. Jim. No, no. No, excuse me. We have masks. We have everything. And we were trying to get ready for the surge. And a lot of people said it will never happen. Deborah said it: “You’ll never need that many beds.” They said we needed 40,000 ventilators. Forty thousand. It’s like building a car. Forty thousand ventilators. People said — I felt it too. You’ll never need that many. Guess what? We have tremendous — we have — we’re the envy of the world, in terms of ventilators. Germany would like some. France would like some. We’re going to help countries out. Spain needs them desperately. Italy needs them desperately. Mexico needs them desperately. He asked me last night, “Would it be possible to get 10,000 ventilators?” Within a short period of time, I’ll be able to help out Mexico. No, Jim — just the opposite of your question. It’s not, “No, no, no.” It’s, “Yes, yes, yes.” We’re in great shape. And you know what? What’s happening now is those numbers are horrible, but take a look at the number of beds. We have beds available all over New York. New York really being the epicenter. New York — New York has experienced something that has been absolutely horrific. I saw Hart’s Island yesterday. I saw those people being buried yesterday. Fortunately, we have the beds. And you can speak to Mayor de Blasio. You can speak to Governor Cuomo. People are — people can’t even believe the job we’ve done. They can’t even believe it. And I give tremendous credit to the military. This has been a military operation, with private people. But wait a minute — wait, wait. I give tremendous credit to our military, to the Army Corps of Engineers, to FEMA, to these people. The job they’ve done is incredible. And you shouldn’t be — — asking that kind of a question. Jim, honestly. Okay. Look, I really don’t believe you’re that bad of a guy. You shouldn’t be asking that kind of a question. You should say, “You know what? It’s been really incredible what’s been happening.” Jim, nobody is asking. What governor — Let me ask you this: What governor — We have more tests than anybody in the world. We have every — We have virtually every country in the world calling us, asking us: “How do we get these tests that you have? Your testing is the best in the world. How do we get it? They’ve done a fantastic job.” And when you ask a question like that, it’s very insulting to a lot of great people. Okay, one more, please. Please. Go ahead. Sweden is different. I think we could’ve followed that approach. And if we did follow that approach, I think we might have 2 million people dead. And Sweden is having a lot of difficulty. You know, look, I’m very friendly with the leadership in Sweden. They took a different approach. They’re a very disciplined country to start off with, but they did take a different — and, you know, other places tried it. The UK tried it — the herd approach, okay? Herd. And they tried it, and you saw what happened in UK. It set them back a lot — a lot of time. It’s been — you know, they’re having a tough time. Other countries have tried it. And Sweden is suffering greatly. I mean, Sweden is suffering greatly. If we did the herd — if we went with the “herd,” as they say, we would have had potentially — I mean, you see the charts. Nobody knows. Nobody will ever know, fortunately. Because we’re going to be substantially less than the minimum, I certainly hope, unless something happens. That would be tragic. So they had a minimum number, if we did. One of the reasons we’re so far below that number is because nobody thought the American people could be so disciplined. Nobody thought it was possible. And, I guess, when they watched us up here every day, and they watched other people, and they listened to their representatives and governors — nobody thought that the American people could be so disciplined. They’ve been unbelievable. And because of that — so you have a minimum number of 100,000, and then you had the 2.2 number that, if we did nothing — if we did — just kept working, everybody go to work — people would be dropping dead on the subways. No. If we would have lost a million people — take the 2.2 million and cut it in half. Make it — cut it in more than half. Make it a million people, okay? Now take that number and cut it in half. Make it 500,000 people. That’s if we did nothing, right? It’s unacceptable. It’s too many people. So we have — we’ve spent more money on stimulus. Who cares by comparison? You take 2.2, you cut it in half, you cut it in half, you cut it in half — you keep cutting it in half. I don’t care what number you choose — 500,000, 400,000. Well, we’re going to have — we’re talking 50, 60, 65 [thousand]. Maybe. Maybe. But if we would have done what one country tried — and it has been very tough for them. You know that. Very, very nasty. Very tough. But if we would have done that here — And again, you got to remember: UK tried it. And I was a little surprised. And I watched it. They were going about — what, two weeks? And they said, “We got to stop.” Because it was — they were going to have a whole country infected. So, with all of that being said, we got to get back to work. We got to get — we got to get our country open. But we could have lost 2 million people. We could have lost 1 million people. We could have lost a half a million people. If we would’ve lost 500,000 people — and I’ll say this also: From the standpoint of being President and Vice President, and we’re up there and we’re doing that herd, and we’re going to bullet through — do you honestly think people like Jim and yourself and other people would’ve — Jeff — would have put up with it, as people are dying all over? They would have said, “This man is crazy.” Because the numbers, Tony, at a minimum, would have been many, many times greater than the numbers we’re talking about. So I’m very honored by our decisions, all of us. We talk about it all the time. I said, “Do you want to let them just –you just ride it. You just ride it right through.” We would have lost potentially millions of people. No. It would have been unsustainable. It would have been impossible to do. And the American people have been so disciplined. It’s been my honor to be their President. I’ve said it before, I’ll say it again, I’ll say it always: It’s been — it’s been my great honor to have been their President. And I have a big decision coming up, and I only hope to God that it’s the right decision. But it’ll be based on the input from a lot of very talented people, very smart people, and people that love our country. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, thank you very much. On this Good Friday, Christians from all around the world remember the suffering and death upon the cross of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. At Easter Sunday, we will celebrate his glorious resurrection. At this holy time, our nation is engaged in a battle like never before — the invisible enemy. Our brave doctors, nurses, and responders — first responders, responders of all — are fighting to save lives. Our workers are racing to deliver critical medical supplies. Our best scientists are working around the clock to develop lifesaving therapeutics, and I think they’re doing really well in doing so. Our people are making tremendous sacrifices to end this pandemic. Though we will not be able to gather together with one another as we normally would on Easter, we can use this sacred time to focus on prayer, reflection, and growing in our personal relationship with God. So important. I ask all Americans to pray that God will heal our nation; to bring comfort to those who are grieving; to give strength to the doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers; to restore health to the sick; and to renew the hope in every person who is suffering. Our nation will come through like never before. I thank the many families who have prayed for me and for my family. And your prayers are felt, and I am forever grateful. I’d like to thank our great Vice President and his wonderful wife, who we all know very well, Karen, for the incredible job they do and for their service not only to the country but for their service to God. Almost 3,000 years ago, the Prophet Isaiah wrote these words: “Darkness covers the Earth…but the Lord rises upon you, and His glory appears over you…For the Lord will be your everlasting light.” As our nation battles the invisible enemy, we reaffirm that Americans believe in the power of prayer. We give thanks for the majesty of creation and for the gift of eternal life. And we place our trust in the hands of Almighty God. I’d like to just wish everybody a very Happy Easter. We’re going to be celebrating that very, very special day, and it’s going to be, hopefully, a very good weekend and a very productive weekend. And I want to thank everybody in our country and beyond for all they’ve had to put up with. One hundred and eighty-four countries, as of this morning, are fighting this enemy and we pray for them all. With that, I’d like to introduce Bishop Harry Jackson from Maryland, a highly respected gentleman who is a member of our faith and a person that we have tremendous respect for. Bishop, please. Thank you. Yes. Thank you, Bishop. Thank you, Bishop. That’s beautiful. Thank you very much. That was a great honor, and thank you. And thank you all. And have a great Good Friday, and we’re going to see you in a little while. And also, if I don’t see you, have a great Easter. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. You too. Happy Easter, everybody. Thank you very much, everybody. I’d like to begin by saying that we just completed a meeting with the Secretary of Treasury Steve Mnuchin and Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao on proposals regarding the airlines and the airline business. And we’re working very closely with a lot of different people. We’ll be probably putting out a proposal and giving them some of the details — some of the very powerful details over the weekend. It’s moving along quickly. The airline business has been hit very hard, as everybody knows. And we are going to be in a position to do a lot to help them so that they keep their employees and they save their businesses. And that’ll be taking place, I think you can say, over the weekend. We may even have discussions with some of the airlines or all of the airlines over the weekend. And I think it’s going to be a very acceptable package. It’s a very big package and a very acceptable package. It’ll be good for our country, good for the airlines, good for a lot of people. Likewise, I just spoke with the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, and the King of Saudi Arabia, King Salman, and we had a big talk as to oil production and OPEC and making it so that our industry does well and the oil industry does better than it’s doing right now. It’s — the numbers are so low that there’ll be layoffs all over the world. There’ll be certainly layoffs in this country. And we don’t want that to happen. We built a great, great energy business in the United States. So we have tens of thousands of jobs. We had a very good talk; we’ll see what happens. But as you know, OPEC met today, and I would say they’re getting close to a deal. We’ll soon find out. So that was a conversation we just had, so we had a busy hour and a half. And let me begin by expressing my sincere gratitude to the American people. Millions of Americans are making profound and difficult sacrifices in their own lives because they know it will save the lives of countless others. And that’s exactly what it’s doing. You see what’s happening and where we are and where we stand. And hopefully we’re going to be opening up — you can call it “opening” very, very — very, very soon, I hope. Together, our people are writing one of the most noble chapters in the proud history of our nation. Americans are also encouraged to learn that Boris Johnson, Prime Minister, has been moved out of intensive care. That’s a tremendous statement. And we continue to pray for him and his fast recovery. That’s a very — a very positive development. As the New York metropolitan area continues its battle against the outbreak, the full power of the federal government is there to support them. As you know, the Javits Center has now been fully converted into a 3,000-bed hospital — one of the largest anywhere in the country — and by the incredible professionals. I have to say, the Corps of Engineers, what they can do is just incredible. They’ve done a fantastic job and they’re building, nationwide, 21 temporary hospitals and care facilities, adding 17,000 hospital beds. And they did that all within a very short period of time. It’s incredible what they’ve done. Army Corps of Engineers. And FEMA has been fantastic. Our sweeping airlift operation to keep doctors and nurses supplied with protective equipment, Project Airbridge, continues to expand with more than 24 flights already completed and 49 additional flights now scheduled in the near future. So that’s been very successful. And that gear and those outfits are being handed out. As they arrive, they’re going directly to point. The American medical system continues to perform beyond our highest expectations, reminding us that the United States is blessed with the most advanced healthcare and the most skilled healthcare workers anywhere in the planet. Other countries are looking to what we’re doing. And our testing operation has now become far and away the most sophisticated and the best anywhere. And we want to thank all of the heroes on the frontlines as they fight to save American lives. We’re at the top of the hill. Pretty sure we’re at the top of the hill, and now we’re going downward. In some cases, we’ve already started that process. Earlier today, I spoke with hundreds of mental health leaders and advocates from around the country to discuss the vital work and the vital work they’re doing. We had the top doctors in the country, some international doctors. Mental health — big factor. Not only has the virus inflicted immense physical suffering on many people, but also mental and emotional suffering as well. Even though we’re staying physically apart, no American is alone, and we’re all in this together. But the mental health doctors and experts — it was a very great call. It was a very interesting call. They’re working very hard. We’re also seeing encouraging signs in our race to develop breakthrough treatments and therapies. Pfizer revealed today that it has found a promising new treatment that might prevent the virus from replicating. And that hopes — it hopes to begin testing in clinical trials very soon. It’s going to be very, very soon. They have great — great feelings for this particular therapy, and they think that a lot of good things are happening. Through the FDA’s Coronavirus Treatment Acceleration Program, 19 therapies and treatments are now being tested and 26 more are in the active planning or [for] clinical trial. So we have 19 therapies being tested currently, and 26 more are in the active planning for clinical trials. That’s a big statement. That’s a lot. Trials for Gilead’s antiviral drug, remdesivir, continue. And the company has also expanded emergency use for new patients getting good, early results, by the way. The companies that manufacture hydroxychloroquine are massively ramping up production. As you know, many people are recommending, strongly, Z-Pak be added — the Z-Pak — and also zinc. And the federal government continues to build our stockpiles and distribute millions of doses for doctors to use as they see fit. And I’m pleased to inform you — we’re just having — a lot of good things are happening, but we’ll have to see how that all works out. But we have — we’ve purchased and we have stockpiled millions and millions of doses, and we’re distributing it. Some states want it very badly. Michigan — we just sent a lot to Michigan and other areas. I’m reporting today that we passed 2 million tests completed in the United States, first time — most anywhere in the country. It’s a milestone for our country. It’s a milestone anywhere. Nobody has done anywhere close. Our tests are highly sophisticated and highly accurate. At the same time, we’re making important progress on the economic front of this war. In a few moments, Secretary of Labor, Eugene Scalia, will explain new steps that we’re taking to ensure American workers swiftly receive unemployment and paid leave benefits and that employers protect the health and safety of all workers, including essential workers on the job, working very, very closely with workers and with employers. To provide further economic relief, the Federal Reserve announced this morning that it’ll provide up to $2.3 trillion in support to businesses, states, and local governments. Six hundred billion dollars in loans will be available for mid-sized businesses with up to 10,000 employees. And $500 billion will be available for states, counties with over 2 million residents and cities with a population of over 1 million. My administration is also working with Congress to replenish the very successful — incredibly successful the way it’s going — Paycheck Protection Program, which is allowing hundreds of thousands of small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll, meaning it’ll keep those businesses open. We need both Democrats and Republicans to come together to get this leg- — the legislation completed. And it looks like it’s on its way, but we need both. And it should be for people that are working for the workers. And if you look and you see, we have a lot of people that are affected by that, and it’s a very positive development. So we have to get a bipartisan approval of that. And hopefully that’ll happen. Today, the Department of Education is also announcing the availability of more than $6 billion in emergency grant funding to assist college students impacted by the cancellation of classes and the suspension of housing. A lot of people had a lot of things suspended; housing is one of them. Previously, we waived student loan payments for six months. So, student loan payments have been waived for six months, and we’ll discuss it after that. It may go further. Although this medical war has separated our citizens for a period of time, it’s also united our entire nation, I think I can say, like almost never before. Americans are moving forward with common purpose and shared resolve, determined to vanquish the virus and lift our nation to even greater heights. We are supremely confident in the magnificent future that awaits the American people. And with that, before I invite our Vice President — our great Vice President — and Gene Scalia to speak, we’ll take a few questions. And then I’m going back into negotiations on oil and on airlines. Yeah, please. Yeah, I had a very good conversation. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, there’s a lot of — there’s a lot of — there’s so much production, nobody even knows what to do with it. That’s how it’s working. And Saudi Arabia and, as you know, Russia — it’s well known that we’re producing a lot, and they were perhaps fighting with each other over the production and the amount of oil being produced. And, frankly, there’s not enough room to even store it. Our storage is now full — going to be very soon. Our Strategic National storage is — I said this is a great time to fill it up, load it up with oil that, frankly, is — had pricing that nobody has ever seen before. I don’t think we’ve seen this probably since the 1950s. That was with big dollars. So we’ll see what happens. The conversation was very good. They’re getting close to a deal; that’s OPEC and many other countries outside of OPEC. And we’ll see what happens. No, I think they were getting along very well. We had a very good — we had a very good call. I think it was a very good call. We’re going to see what happens, but it was a very good call. They’ll probably announce something either today or tomorrow, one way or the other. Could be good. Could be not so good. But I think one way or the other — Go ahead, Jim. No. No. We have a great testing system. We have the best — right now, the best testing system in the world. But there are certain sections — There are certain sections in the country that are in phenomenal shape already. Other sections are coming online; other sections are going down. And we, in addition to that, are giving out millions of tests. And every day, we’re doing it exponentially. We’re picking up. And what we’ll be doing in the very near future is going to certain areas of our country and do massive testing. It’s not necessary, but it would be a good thing to have. Go ahead. We want to have it, and we’re going to see if we have it. Do you need it? No. Is it a nice thing to do? Yes. We’re talking about 325 million people. And that’s not going to happen, as you can imagine. And no — it would never happen with anyone else either. Other countries do it, but they do it in a limited form. We’ll probably be the leader of the pack. Please. Well, I think the economy is going to do very well. Now, that’s just my feeling. It’s a strong feeling. I’ve had good, proper feelings about a lot of things over the years. And I think we’re going to do well. We’re doing very — it looks like we’re at the lower end of the curve in terms of death, which is a terrible word, a terrible, dark word that we’ve experienced like nobody has ever seen before in this country. I mean, we have numbers that are terrible. But when you look at the lower levels of 100- — lower prediction levels of 100- — 120,000 to 220,000 — or, if we did nothing, up to 2.2 million people — we’re looking at a much lower level than the level of — I hope than the level of 100,000. So we’re going to see. We’re going to have to — you can never — look, you can never do anything about the people that lost their loved ones and love their — lost their friends. And, I mean, the great friendships. And I’m not sure a lot of people will ever be the same. But I think our country, from an economic standpoint, will end up being stronger than ever. We have tremendous stimulus. We have tremendous stimulus plans. We have things in the works that are going to really, I think, fire the country. I think that what’s going to happen is we’re going to have a big bounce rather than a small bounce. But we will be back. And I think — honestly, I think our country is going to be back, from an economic standpoint — again, you can never replace the people that were lost. And to their families, certainly you can never do a thing like that. But we will have succeeded in many ways, hopefully keeping the number way below our minimum numbers. And also, from an economic standpoint — you know, we met with the mental health people today, and that takes a trem- — this has taken a tremendous toll, mentally, on a lot of people. And I think we’re going to open up strong. I think we’re going to open up very successfully, and, I’d like to say, even more successfully than before. Please. Yeah. Well, I want to see it where there’s a certain market, but I also don’t want — I don’t want to see it where people are — have no idea — you know, we’re opening up — we’ll be opening up areas for storage of oil — massive areas for storage of oil — because oil today is not selling. And what happened is the virus knocked out 40 percent of the market immediate- — you know that; you know the number. Forty percent. Now, there was a lot of oil, but it was very controllable. All of a sudden, they lost 40 percent. You look at the roads, you look at the car — you look at what’s going on; there’s nobody driving. There’s no reason for it right now. That’ll start coming back. But we are storing millions of barrels of oil that nobody thought would even be possible. Frankly, ships turned out to be a good business for some people because they’re filling up tankers, sending them out to sea, and not saying where to go. They’re just sitting out there loaded up with oil. So we want to save our energy. In this country, we want to make sure that our energy companies, businesses, and employees, workers remain strong. So that’s how I’m involved. And I think that’s going to happen. So right now, if you look, you’re probably talking $23, $25. If they announce a deal, we can get it up. We need a minimum number so the companies don’t go out of business, so they’re not going to lay off all of these energy workers who are important to our country. And, you know, we’re now energy independent. We could do something where we only used our oil. But I think the long-term benefit is to be able to just go with the market. And it’s going to work out. It’s all going to work out. If you looked at three weeks ago, as you know, because we talked about it, three weeks ago and two weeks ago, this was catastrophic. I think it’s really hitting bottom, and I think that — I mean, we’ve had a bottom. But now at $23 and $25 and probably heading up. At the same time, we save our energy and we also produce great, cheap energy and we save our jobs. Yeah. I don’t think there’s a fault. We’re — they’re doing record numbers of — of dollars. They’re dealing with many community banks. They’re dealing with Bank of America, Citibank, a lot of — Wells Fargo, as you know, is very much involved. And they’re dealing with the bankers. It can’t go that quickly but I’m hearing it’s a very, very successful rollout. They did want changes in applications. They want changes in loan requirements, et cetera. But they’re taking billions and billions of dollars’ worth of loans. And in the very near future, the banks will be relieving the money. They’ll be paying out the money. Yeah. Please. Well, we have a deal. Yeah. The deal is with Canada. We’re deal- — with Mexico, we have a deal. And obviously the deal is different from the standpoint that production will be lower. But we have a deal. It’s a signed deal. It’s a deal that’s a — one of the worst deals that we’ve ever had was NAFTA. One of the worst trade deals ever made by any country anywhere, and we’ll be terminating that. And the new deal is a great deal for our country. So, that’s something. Now, again, we got hit by the virus, and we’ll see where that all goes. But certainly, car production is going to be down for a little while. But, ultimately, good for our farmers, great for our farmers. We’ll be helping our farmers, by the way. We have money going out to our farmers in the pretty near future, having to do with — you see what’s happened. The farmers got hurt very badly by all of this. People are eating less from the standpoint that there’s — no restaurants are open, no businesses are open, no hotels are open. They’ll start to come back. But we’re going to be helping out our farmers. Yeah. Please. Go ahead. Yeah. No. No, I’m not, because we’re — we’re in very good shape. You’ll be speaking with Mike Pence about this in a little while. You look at the hospitals, you look at what’s going on — I spoke to — yesterday, I spoke with the governor of Louisiana. I’m saying, “Do you think we need that extra thousand beds that we’re in the process of building?” We are really in good shape. You’re not hearing people are needing ventilators much. In fact, we’re going to start helping other countries with ventilators. We’re going to end up having a lot of ventilators for future, should something happen for hospitals — ideally to keep and have. But, no, I think we’re in very, very good shape. We have calls with governors all the time. And the governors are in very good shape now. We have helped — we have sent billions and billions and billions of dollars between ventilators, equipment, protective equipment, masks. We have 500 million masks coming — 500 million from one group. Five hundred. It’ll be 300 million and 200 million over a short period of time. No, I think we’re in very good shape. Please. Yeah. I don’t like using the word “needed” because I don’t think it’s “needed,” but I think we’re going to try and hit a number like that. That’s a very high number, but we’re going to be trying to hit it, and we probably might be able to do that. Please. Go ahead. Go ahead. Please. I do. And I do support something, but I support it for the next phase. It’s much simpler in the next phase, whether that phase is infrastructure or whatever. So I’m going to leave you now with Mike Pence and with Eugene Scalia. And if you would — I look forward to seeing you tomorrow. We’ll see you tomorrow. We have a lot of — I think a lot of very big news to report. We’ve had a tremendous day between I believe what’s happening with the energy industry and I believe what’s happening with airlines. I look forward to seeing you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. This is a holy week, when religious believers across the nation will observe Passover, Good Friday, and Easter. Millions of Jewish families begin Passover at sundown tonight, a sacred, unbroken tradition that traces back to the ancient land of Egypt. And on Sunday, we celebrate our beautiful, wonderful Easter, which we all look forward to. And we’re going to have many Easters together in churches in the future. We’re getting closer. You see the numbers. We’re getting much closer to getting our country back to the way it was. We have now an extra two countries that have been attacked: 184. They’re being attacked as we speak, but we’ll all win. At some point, we’re going to all win. We’re going to do it sooner than people think. Earlier today, I spoke with 10,000 of America’s faith leaders to thank them for raising the spirits of our people during these very difficult days. While we may be physically apart, we can use this time to pray, to reflect, and to focus on our personal relationship with God. I also spoke with more than 3,000 mayors, county commissioners, and state and tribal leaders to provide an update on our administration’s ongoing drive to beat the virus, to crush the virus. And that’s happening. And it’s happening, I think if you look, a little bit more quickly than people thought. Maybe a lot more quickly, I hope. And it’s something that all over the world we’re watching, but people are watching us and seeing what we’re doing, and they’re very impressed. We’re dealing with many countries right now. Many, many countries. And we’re giving them whatever information we’re able to glean. I just spoke with the representatives of the UK, and I think that their great prime minister is doing much better today, or at least better. But certainly he’s had a tough bout, and he’s still going through a tough time, but he seems to be doing better. And that’s good. And we — we send our regards to Boris and his family and his friends, all of the people that really love him. He’s — he’s become a very popular — before this happened, became a very popular prime minister. He’s doing an excellent job. He loves their country; he loves our country. So we appreciate everything he’s done, and hopefully he’s going to be okay. Speaking of great people, and people that have done a fantastic job, I have Secretary of State Mike Pompeo with us. And I’d like to ask Mike to say a few words. And then I think what we’ll do, in order to get him back to the State Department, we’ll take some questions and we’ll then go on with the rest of what I’m going to say. And then we’ll take some questions after that, and then Vice President Pence will take over. So, Mike Pompeo, please. Good. Very good. Thanks, Mike. Maybe you stick for a little while — — and we’ll see if anybody has any questions for Secretary of State. Anybody? Please. Go ahead. In the middle, and then him behind. You can say we helped. Well, you can just say we helped. Jeff. Okay? Go ahead, please. Haven’t made a determination. Okay? Let’s save it. Can we save it? busy man. He’s a busy man. Okay? Thank you, Mike. Appreciate it. Thanks. Okay, thank you very much. In just a few days, we’ve delivered nearly 11 million N95 masks to hotspots around the country, as you know, including 6.6 million to New York and New Jersey, 1.8 million to Chicago, 1.7 million to Detroit, and 837,000 to New Orleans. I spoke with the governor of Louisiana a little while ago, and they’re doing, really, pretty well. Much better than they thought. They’ll be using fewer beds. As you know, we built a hospital. We’re about set to complete another hospital, and there’s even a possibility they won’t — they won’t need it. That’s what we discussed. To date, we’ve shipped out more than 8,000 ventilators, and we have 10,000 — almost 10,000 sitting. They are ready to go, should we need them. And an additional 2,200 newly manufactured ventilators come online on Monday. We’re going to be sending them to various locations, just in case they need them. My administration is working with Philips to double their production of ventilators by May, and ultimately quadruple production by later this year. High-quality ventilators. We’re eliminating bureaucratic barriers to pave the way for Philips’s major investments in American manufacturing sites and sales. This will help to ensure that our country can permanently produce enough ventilators in the future that we can do them by ourselves. We’re going to have a big stockpile when we’re finished. And we expect to be sending quite a few to other countries to help them after we’re finished. And even now, we’re — a couple of countries are really, really in dire need. And it looks like our projections were right on ventilators, and some states that were thinking they would need thousands of more than they thought will — are now already taken care of, which we’re very happy about. In addition, beginning in May, we’ll be receiving almost 300 million new face masks. We’re going to have masks of about 300 million; they’ll be starting to be delivered in May and during the month of June. So we’re ordering a big stockpile, and we’re thinking about doing an extra 200 million should we need them, or for the — or for the stockpile. So we’ll be in a position to have something incredible. It’ll be a total of 500 million masks. And today, 750,000 new protective gowns landed in Dallas, Texas, as a result of a partnership led by the federal government, DuPont, and FedEx. And that’s been a great partnership. That’s worked very well. So we have 600 and — and we have 750,000 new protective gowns. And these are at a high level — very high quality. As American industry steps up to help, so are America’s doctors and scientists. Ten drugs are now in clinical trials. And my administration is taking unprecedented actions to make new therapies and treatments available without delay. The doctors, the lab technicians, the companies — I spoke to them yesterday; I spoke again today. They are coming up with things that are, I think, I hope — in the very near future — are going to be very, very special, very important. Our National Stockpile is now equipped with nearly 30 million hydroxychloroquine pills. So we’re up to about 30 million. We’re distributing by the millions. You read about State Representative Karen Whitsett, who I very much appreciate her going public. But she was, I think, very, very much helped by this pill. She saw what I was saying on television. She thought she was in very bad shape. I don’t want to go further than that, but you see her story; you know her story. She’s a highly respected state rep from Michigan. And she did a — she did a — I think she did a great service, what she — what she’s done. She’s in terrific shape. She looks fantastic. And she was very generous with her statements. In addition, the azithromycin and zinc — they say zinc — you should add zinc. Now, it’s all — has to be recommended by doctors, physicians. But they say zinc. I want to throw that out there because that’s where they seem to be having the best result. So you add the zinc and the azithromycin. And it’s been — we’ve had a lot of good stories. A lot of good stories. And we have almost 30 million doses. So we’ve got a lot. I want to thank Prime Minister Modi of India for allowing us to have what we requested from before the problem arose. And he was — he was terrific. We’ll remember it. Later today, the CDC will release further guidance to help ensure critical infrastructure workers can perform their job safely after potential exposure to the virus. And so they’re working on that. The question was asked a little while ago about the World Health Organization. And, as you know, they made a statement on June — on January 14th, I guess it was, that there was no human-to-human transmission. Well, there was. They probably made that statement in the second or third week of December, in addition, but they made it very powerfully on January 14th. And they criticized me very strongly when I said that we’re going to shut down flights coming in from China, and especially from certain parts of China, but from China generally. We were criticized very badly. So, last year, and for many years, hundreds of millions of dollars has been paid to the World Health Organization. Hundreds of millions of dollars a year. And last year, it was $452 million, and China paid $42 million. Before that, it was $500 million, and China paid less than $40 million. And before that, it was similar numbers — in the 400s, 300s, and sometimes even in the 500s of millions of dollars. And China would do proportionately just a small fraction of that number. And I think they have to get their priorities right, and their priorities are that everybody has to be treated properly — every country. And it doesn’t seem that way, does it? It doesn’t seem that way. So we’re going to do — study, investigation, and we’re going to make a determination as to what we’re doing. In the meantime, we’re holding back. We’re going to — we want to see. It’s very unfair. So the United States — $452 million compared to $42 million. That’s to the World Health Organization. That’s not good. That’s not good. Not fair. Not fair at all. And other countries, as you know, also gave very substantially less than the United States. And the World — WHO — World Health got it wrong. I mean, they got it very wrong. In many ways, they were wrong. They also minimized the threat very strongly and — not good. I want to take this opportunity to express the thanks of an extremely grateful nation to the Americans who go to work every day, especially in these critical industries, in the midst of the pandemic to care for and protect and feed American people, including medical personnel, law enforcement, first responders, food suppliers, sanitation workers. And somebody mentioned today, “Would you please specifically call out cashiers and clerks at grocery stores who are in danger during the — during the pandemic, during the epidemic?” They’re in danger. They’re really in great danger. And they’ve been incredible and I want to call them out — to cashiers and clerks. We grew up with cashiers and clerks and grocery stores and they’ve been great and they’ve really been true American heroes, so I want to call them out because they’re working hard and they’re working in conditions that aren’t ideal. But soon they’ll be ideal again. As we mourn the terrible loss of life for this — and from this — this grave pandemic, we’re seeing signs that our aggressive strategy to slow the spread is working. The number of new cases is stabilizing. The number of beds necessary in so many locations — I was watching, this morning, New York. I was watching Louisiana. You see what’s going on. The numbers are changing and they’re changing rapidly. And soon we’ll be over that curve. We’ll be over the top and we’ll be headed in the right direction. I feel strongly about that. Some terrible days ahead, but we’re going to have some — some wonderful days ahead. And we’re going to get this behind us, this terrible thing behind us. Some people will never be able to forget if they had a loved one or if they had a great friend or a friend — but we’re going to get it behind us. This is a tribute to the discipline and the devotion of the American people, what we’ve accomplished. If every American continues to strictly adhere to social distancing guidelines, we can defeat the invisible enemy and save countless lives and we can do it much more quickly. We’re hopefully heading toward a final stretch — the light at the end of the tunnel, as I was saying. As we continue to wage all-out medical war to defeat the virus, we’re also fighting an economic war to ensure we can quickly turn to full financial strength. We have to get our country back. We have to get going. Everybody wants to get going. Yesterday, I asked Congress to provide an additional $250 billion to expand the incredibly successful Paycheck Protection Program — you’ve seen what’s gone on there; it’s incredible, actually — which is allowing our small businesses to keep employees on the payroll and get ready for the opening. Like a second opening. To protect millions of American jobs, I’m asking Congress to pass additional funding for this program this week, as soon as possible. And I think we have a pretty good understanding with the Democrats. Hopefully, it’s going to be bipartisan. We do not have time for the partisan games and we don’t want that — the obstruction or totally unrelated agendas. We want to do this for the small businesses and the workers. And we can do a phase four and phase four will be later. This will be an expansion of what we’ve already done because it’s so successful. The $350 billion will be expanded by hopefully 250 and, if you look at the kind of loans, thousands — tens of thousands of loans to small businesses. It’s a — it’s a great thing to see. It’s turned out to be more successful and more productive than anybody would have thought. But Democrats or Republicans are coming together to get that job done. That’s a very important job. In recent days and days ahead, we’ll restore America’s health and economic might, but also dimensions of our national strength will be brought together, I think, stronger than — I think we have a chance to be stronger than ever before. We’ve learned a lot and we have tremendous stimulus now. Tremendous stimulus. And we’re going for more. Hopefully, we’ll be doing an infrastructure bill so we can rebuild our roads and highways and bridges and tunnels and all of the things that we should be doing for our country. We’re going to rebuild our country, not other countries where they don’t even appreciate it. As our citizens persevere through this present challenge, we’re renewing American unity and we’re replenishing American will and we are witnessing new American valor each and every day. We see it every day. The daring and determination of our people in this crisis reminds us that no matter how hard it gets, no matter what obstacles we must overcome, Americans will keep on fighting to victory and we will secure the glorious future that our citizens so richly deserve, especially after going through this nightmare, this evil beast. So we’re getting very close and hopefully it will — hopefully, it’s on the other side and it will end soon. And I think it will. And I just think that the people of this country are fantastic. So we’ll take a few questions and then Vice President will take over. Please go ahead. Please. Well, I learned when I started — when I learned about the gravity of it was sometime just prior to closing the country to China. And when we closed up the flights coming in from China and various other elements — and then, as you know, we closed up to Europe. So, I don’t know exactly, but I’d like to see the information. Yeah, please. Please. Yeah. So do I, more than anybody. Well, I think we can say that we have to be on that down side of that slope and heading to a very strong direction that this thing is gone. We could do it in phases. We can go to some areas, which you know. Some areas are much less affected than others. But it would be nice to be able to open with a big bang and open up our country — or certainly most of our country. And I think we’re going to do that soon. If you look at what’s happening, I would say we’re ahead of schedule. Now, you hate to say it too loudly because, all of the sudden, things don’t happen. But I think we will be sooner rather than later. But we’ll be sitting down with the professionals. We’ll be sitting down with many different people and making a determination. And those meetings will start taking place fairly soon. Yeah, I would — I rely very heavily on them. Yeah. Yeah. We’re putting in — yeah. We’re putting in very heavy testing systems. We have the best testing systems. And again, don’t forget when we look at cases, I’m looking at some — I’m not going to insult anybody, I’m not going to insult any country — but I’m looking at countries that are showing less cases than us; that’s testing. We’re testing more than anybody. And you — you saw exponentially, more than anybody, by far. And our testing has become — I think it’ll end up being a big strength. In fact, the other countries — other countries that the media talked about are now calling us for what are we doing and how are we doing it so quickly and where are we getting these tests because our tests are really good now. They’ve been proven to be very accurate. Yes, please. Yeah. Sure. It’s ridiculous. I agree. It’s ridiculous. I think it’s the highest-paid government — long before I got here — you said Tennessee Valley Authority, right? Has to be the highest-paid man in any government; makes approximately $8 or $9 million. I don’t know the gentleman but he’s got a heck of a job. He gets paid a lot of money. He’s been there for a long while, hasn’t he? Well, that’s a separate — yeah, that’s separate. But I’m talking about the — the — we just have some new people going on the board, I know. But as you know, that’s a quasi-public agency. And whoever the head of the agency is, that person makes a lot of money — — which is an amazing thing, right? And when we want them to do something, they’re not there for us. That’s not good. That’s not good. They’ve been there for a long time. That’s been a story for a long time. Yeah. Reducing it by a lot. That would be the greatest job in the history of government, almost. Certainly if you’re into money. Tennessee Valley Authority. That’s right. Go ahead. I’ve been waiting for somebody to ask me about that. It’s been — it’s been bothering me for a long time too. Go ahead. Yeah. Which son? It must be Don. I had a feeling it was Don. Is that what he said? I don’t know. I know nothing about it. He has 22 years for what? What did he do? You think he didn’t do it? Are you on his side? Are you recommending a pardon? As a reporter, you’re not allowed to do that. You’d be criticized by these — would you recommend a pardon? I don’t think you would. I don’t think you would. Go ahead. Do you have a question? I’ll take a look. Is that Joe Exotic? That’s Joe Exotic? Go ahead. Yeah. My — yeah. My impression, Jim, is those were the numbers that were set, and they were set as an expectation from quite a while ago. I think we’re just doing much better than those numbers. If either of you would like to talk about that, it’s a fair question. Do you want to come up? Deborah? Yeah. I’m going to do that. I’m going to ask Bob to come up just for a second. Director — I think that’s it: We have a — we’ve done, they have done, everybody has done — everybody, a great job. So those were original projections. And we don’t want to say anything about beating it yet, but I think we will have a very good chance to beat them very substantially. Bob, please? Yeah. I don’t remember that. I’ve now seen the memo. I saw it. It was — Peter sends a lot of memos. I didn’t see the memo. As you know, World Health was saying that was not correct because, at the time, they called it wrong. But I didn’t see the memo. But I acted as quickly as — people were shocked that I acted so quickly. And everybody thought I was wrong because I did act so quickly as you know, with respect to closing the borders — with respect not only to China, but with Europe I closed the borders. And I think that was very important. But, no, I didn’t see the memo at the time. But I have seen it since. Yeah, please. Wait a minute, Jim. Let me — let me do a couple of others. We’ll go back. I agree with that. Well, I think when you say more body bags, I think we would have done — and he would have been much better serving the people that he’s supposed to serve if they gave a correct analysis. I mean, everything was, I said, China-centric: “Everything was going to be fine. No human to human. Keep the borders open.” He wanted me to keep the borders open. I closed the borders despite him, and that was a hard decision to make at the time. We were all together, and we made a decision against the World Health Organization. So when he says “politicizing,” he’s politicizing. That shouldn’t be. But, look, we spent $450 billion, $452 billion. Almost $500 billion last year. Hundreds of billions in previous years. And they got to do better than that. They got to do better. When you talk about politics, I can’t believe — he’s talking about politics when look at the relationship they have to China. So China spends $42 million, we spend $450 million, and everything seems to be China’s way. That’s not right. It’s not fair to us, and honestly, it’s not fair to the world. Okay. Question in the back. Yeah. Yeah. It’s not — I have never heard about it. Doesn’t sound like a bad idea, actually. But I have not heard about that. I don’t know if I’d be okay. I have to see it. But it sounds very scientific, and it sounds like it could be good, based on tracking. But it also has to do with rights and lots of different constitutional questions. I have not heard that at all. Yeah — the FISA abuse, of which I was the one abused. And a couple of other people, in all fairness. No, I don’t know anything about it. I haven’t heard it. I mean, I’ll speak to him. I don’t — I don’t think so. They would have told me. I would have known about it. Please. In Nevada? You mean because of the number of employees? And yet they’re small businesses. Well, I can look at that. I could look. It’s a great state, and I will take a look at that strongly. Are you talking only the smaller casinos? Yeah. I’ll take a look at that. Fine. I don’t mind that. Please. Yeah. We’ll take a look. Yeah. We haven’t heard. Nobody has told me about it, but I’ll look at it. They — they — it’s a great state. They do a great job. So I’m going to look at it very strongly. I understand what they mean. Please. Well, when you say they don’t listen, I think they’re going to listen. They want to go back. Everybody wants. They’re going stir crazy. They have been in those houses and those apartments and their buildings. I mean, they’ve really been — they have done a great job. Again, when you look — the question was just asked about — you know, about how we’re doing compared to projections. Those were just original projections, the big projection being 2.2 million people would die if we did nothing. That was another decision we made: Close it up. That was a big decision that we made. Two very smart people walked into my office, and they said, “Listen, these are your alternatives.” And that was a projection of, I guess, 1.5- to 2.2 million people would die if we didn’t close it up. That’s a lot of people. So, if we do a number that’s tremendously smaller than that — now, if we did close it up, the numbers got to 100- to 220 million people. So, if we can stay substantially under the 100, which was the original projection, I think we all did a very good job, even though it’s a lot of people. Say it? Well, right now, we’re — I mean, we’re doing well in terms of the numbers. I can’t tell you in terms of the date. You know, we don’t want to — we don’t want to go down, and then we can start going up, if we’re not careful. So, we have to be careful. As far as distancing — social distancing and other things — certainly for a while. You know, at some point, that’s going away. We’ll be able to sit next to each other and every — like we have all our lives. This is a very unique thing. This has not happened, anything like this, of this magnitude, since 1917, 1918, the great pandemic. That was — that was something. But — yeah, no, people want to sit next to each other at restaurants. They want to sit next to each other like normal at a football game, baseball game, basketball game, hockey game. No, we want to go back to life. Now, the first period of time, maybe we’ll go a little bit slower and maybe we’ll be talking about distancing. But at some point, we expect to be back like it was before. And hopefully it’ll never happen. Hopefully it will — if it does happen it’s going to be in a hundred years from now. The last one, 1917 — that’s something. That’s a long time ago. And that was — that was a horrible thing. Jim, go ahead. Yeah. Yeah, sure. Well, what happened — Well, what happened — yeah. True. True and fair. The — I think there’s a lot of evidence, but we’ll provide you with some, okay? And there’s evidence that’s being compiled just like it’s being compiled in the state of California, where they settled with Judicial Watch, saying that a million people should not have been voting in — you saw that. Wait, excuse me. I’m just telling you. I’m telling you, in California, in the great state of California, they settled, and we could’ve gone a lot further. Judicial Watch settled where they agreed that a million people should not have voted, where they were 115 years old and lots of things, and people were voting in their place. What I see and — you know, every one of those states that you mentioned is a state that happens to be won by the Democrats. And if you have a position like me, where it’s registered, you’re here, and we’re voting someplace where I’m not — I haven’t left the White House in, I guess, months, other than to, you know, ask a ship to — you know, wave it goodbye to New York — which, by the way, is now going — as you know, being used for the purpose that we’re talking about, which a lot of people wanted. Wait a minute. Well it’s — it hasn’t. It certainly hasn’t. But if you’re a senior citizen and if you’re somebody that needs it, I’m all for it. But they have to be very careful, because you know the things with bundling and all of the things that are happening with votes by mail where thousands of votes are gathered. And I’m not going to say which party does it, but thousands of votes are gathered and they come in and they’re dumped in a location, and then, all of a sudden, you lose elections if you think you’re going to win. I won’t to stand for it. Well, we’re going to find out about the proof, because you’re going to see what’s going on. And I’m not going to stand for it. Our voting system — first of all, we should have voter ID. When you vote, you should have voter ID. And if you send something in, you should be sure — as a state and as a country, you should be sure that that vote is meaningful and it’s not just made fraudulently, because there’s a lot of fraudulent voting going on in this country. This country should have voter ID. Okay, let’s do another one. Go, please. Yeah. Well, I think it’s very systematic. Yeah, we’re distributing the hydroxy all through the country. It’s being distributed in large amounts. We have it coming in now. We’re up to 29 million doses; then we went to 30 million doses. But we have it coming in all throughout the country, and much of it’s being distributed. In fact, it’ll start going down, what we have in our stockpile. And, again, it’s had — you know, I — I hope it works. Again, I’m not a doctor, as you possibly have found out. I’m not a doctor, but I’m a person with common sense. And we’ve had some very good results over the course — — including a woman who just reported it two days ago. Yes? I think no. We’re looking — we’re looking to provide it in many different ways. In many ways, we’re — in certain instances, we’ve been asked — in the case of Michigan, we’ve been asked who the governor of Michigan would like to — I think she’s become a big fan of it as a medication, as a — as something that’s going to help with this horrible virus. And we’re delivering it to the governments of various states when they ask. So certain states are asking, certain governments are asking, and we’re delivering it directly to the government. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Yes. Yes. Good. Where are you from? Where are you from? Good. Medical goods? That doesn’t bother me. No, if they’re sending medical goods to Iran, it doesn’t bother me. Okay? I did see that today. Well, he didn’t really drop out. He didn’t really — what about his delegates? I mean, he — he said he’s going to keep his delegates and — which is sort of interesting. He’s going to keep his delegates, and he’d like to get more now. Now, is he dropping out or not? That’s not dropping out. When you keep your delegates and then you want more delegates before you get to the convention, that’s a weird deal going on there. I don’t know what’s happening. And I don’t know why President Obama hasn’t supported Joe Biden a long time ago. There is something he feels is wrong. Why isn’t — he’ll come out. I’m sure he’s got to come out at some point because he certainly doesn’t want to see me for four more years. We’re not — we think a little bit differently. You know what? I’ll tell you, it does amaze me that President Obama hasn’t supported Sleepy Joe. It just hasn’t happened. When is it going to happen? When is it going to happen? Why isn’t he? He knows something that you don’t know, that I think I know, but you don’t know. So it’ll be interesting. But with Bernie, I saw his standard fare today. I watched. And I hope that a lot of Bernie Sanders’s people, just like they did last time — we got a tremendous percentage of Bernie people. And I think they voted for me largely because of trade, because Bernie and I agree on trade. We agree that the United States has been ripped off by virtually every country they do business with. The difference is I’ve done a lot about it, and I’m doing more about it. And we’ve made incredible trade deals, including USMCA, the deal with China, and then, all of a sudden, that gets disturbed by this virus situation. But China has to spend almost $250 billion on purchasing our products, $40- to $50 billion with our farmers. And the Bernie Sanders people are big believers on what I’m saying on trade. And I got a lot of them in the last election. That surprised people, but it didn’t surprise me. No, those are great people. They’re great people. But I — I just — look, I’m looking at Bernie Sanders. I watched this morning, and I said, “What is that all about?” Like, you saw that — the delegates. The delegates. He’s not giving up his delegates. He’s keeping them, and he said he wants to get more of them. And I think he’s doing it to negotiate, I assume. But I don’t know, that’s — that’s a hard thing to do. Yeah, Jeff, go ahead. Yeah. Oh, that’s good. Finally — — somebody knows something when they ask a question. I don’t think. Look, we already cut. You know, we’re, like, very market-oriented. If you look at Texas and if you look at North Dakota, and if you look at some of our states that do this very well, they’ve already cut way back. You know, they cut back automatically. But in the case of Russia, in the case of Saudi Arabia, they increased production at a time when you didn’t need it, and then they got hit by the virus, which knocked out 40 percent of the market. And now they’re flooded with oil. Look I — I just say this: You have two countries that are getting hurt very badly. Russia is getting hurt, and that’s their primary source. And Saudi Arabia, that’s their –definitely their primary source. And it doesn’t make sense that they flooded the market. For whatever reason, they did that for themselves. It’s a argument that they had. And I think they’ll straighten it out. A lot of progress has been made over the last week, and it’ll be interesting to see what comes out of OPEC tomorrow. But OPEC, obviously — for many years, I used to think OPEC was very unfair. I hated OPEC. You want to know the truth? I hated it, because it was a fix. But somewhere along the line, that broke down and it went the opposite way. And we have a tremendously powerful energy industry in this country now. Number one in the world. And I don’t want those jobs being lost. Okay? We’ll see. I mean, I have a lot of options. Please. Got a lot of good options, Jeff. Beauties. I might like it even more. No, you’ll. Let’s see what happens. Hopefully they can make a deal. Let’s go. I agree. Including me. You said adjusted back down 61,000. What was adjusted back? Yeah. Go ahead. It’s still a big number, right? Sixty-one. Right? That’s a big number. Go ahead. Well, I don’t want to do that. Look, I had a date, and I thought it was a very aspirational day. It’s turning out to be very interesting, because a lot of good things are happening by Easter. But I had a very aspirational date. I didn’t think you could make it. I didn’t say we would do it by Easter, but I said, “Boy, wouldn’t it be great to shoot for Easter”? That would be a great day, a beautiful day, a very important day to a lot of people like me and like some of you in the room. Maybe all of you in the room, frankly. But Easter is a very important day. So I had — aspirationally, I said, “Let’s see if we can do it at Easter.” You know, but I said it would be very tough. And I was criticized for that, so I don’t like giving dates. And that wasn’t a date, that was just an aspiration. That would have been incredible. But I don’t think we’re going to be very far behind. And some of these models are looking like Easter is going to be a very important date anyway because of the curve. I mean, it’s hitting the top, and it’s starting to come down. And one person said Easter is looking like a good time. So a good time for that, for heading down. So we’ll see what happens. Look, there’s no reason to do that. We have a lot of good things happening. When I spoke to the governor of Louisiana, he said, “Tony, they need far less beds than they needed.” I said, “Well, good, because we’re building 1,000-room additional.” We built them 1,000 — the beds. And now we’re building another thousand. And I said, “Listen, is there a way that we don’t build — I don’t want to build them if they don’t need them.” In New York, the Javits isn’t too heavily used; it’s ready to go — 2,900 beds — plus, we now have the ship set for COVID if they want to use it. And we’re using it for governor Murphy in New Jersey. So we’ll see what happens. But, you know, the numbers are coming way down. The ventilators, we’re all set. We have a lot to go if we want. But we’re not getting — I’m not getting calls where they need ventilators anymore. So we were right on those ventilators. I’d love to have additional ventilators for some of the countries that are our allies and our friends. And even if they’re not our allies and our friends, you’re saving human lives. But I’d love to see if we had some — I mean, we’re making a lot of ventilators right now. We have a — and they take a while to make, and they’re very expensive and they’re very complex to make. But I’d love to be able to help other countries once we’re taken care of. But I just sent 100 ventilators to Colorado, and that was great. A senator there who is a terrific senator — Cory and — Cory Gardner. And he called me last night. He said, “Could you get 100 ventilators for Colorado?” And we just sent them out, and there’ll be there very shortly. So — but it looks like we’re in great shape from the bed standpoint. It looks like we’re in great shape from the ventilator standpoint. And you just heard, I ordered 500 million masks — 500 N95s and others — and surgical. But we ordered 500 million masks: 300 and 200. And they’re going to be here very shortly. So, we’re really in great shape, and we started off with an empty cupboard. So I’m going to leave the Vice President and his group to handle it. And I will see you probably tomorrow. Okay? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. No, I don’t. No, I don’t. Thanks. Good question. I want to thank everybody for being here. It is a great tribute to the banking business. The money that’s been done, and the money that’s been essentially loaned — these are great loans for the banks and they’re great loans for small business, and we appreciate it. We’re looking forward to speaking with the top CEOs from the banking industry and finance industry. Some of you I know very well and great relationships with. You do an incredible job. Respected all over the world. You’re the biggest and the best. And we’re meeting to further deepen our partnership to help American families, workers, and small businesses during this pandemic, which is something that nobody ever dreamed of. You know, I say it and I say it a lot: We had the greatest economy in history, the greatest economy that we’ve ever had, the greatest economy that anybody has ever had. And then, one day, they said, “You got to close it down. Close the country,” because we have to get rid of the plague. And that’s exactly what we had, is a plague. And it’s — it’s — we’re seeing light at the end of the tunnel. You see it. I see it. And I think we’re going to go like a rocket ship once we get back to business. There’s a lot of pent-up energy and demand. But I also want to thank Secretary Mnuchin for the incredible job he’s done in conceiving many of these ideas. We’ve talked late into the night. And he and his staff have been incredible. Administrator Carranza, Larry Kudlow, and my daughter, Ivanka Trump, who just wants to have people working. That’s what — I gave her lots of options, and — “What do you like?” And she created over 15 million jobs working with some of you, but working with the biggest companies in the world. They were training and training like nobody has ever seen. But she started off with a goal of 500,000 jobs, and now she’s up to over 15 million. As our nation wages the war against the invisible enemy, we’re grateful for the many ways in which your companies have answered the call to join our national endeavor. Thank you for donating tens of millions of dollars. Maybe it’s not good equipment. But thank you very much for donating tens of millions of dollars for vital supplies and for supporting small businesses across the country. America’s small businesses are the backbone of our communities. When you look and we hear all about the big companies that we know so well, but the small companies, when added together, are actually a bigger force. A lot of people don’t understand that. You do. We do. Our nation’s 30 million small businesses employ nearly half of our workforce. My administration will continue to take the boldest action in history to bring immediate relief to our small businesses. So when we open up in a hopefully short — very short period of time, we just — we’re back into business. That’s what we want. And we have lots of stimulus. So I think we can actually — with the stimulus and with the pent-up demand, I think we can really do numbers that are equivalent and maybe even better than we were doing before, within a fairly short period of time. That’s what my hope is. And that’s what the hope of many of you are too. As you know, on Friday we launched the Paycheck Protection Program to help small businesses keep workers on the payroll. As of today, SBA has processed over $70 billion in guaranteed loans, which is far greater than we would have ever thought at this time, I think, Steve. I don’t think we ever had any number like that in mind. That will provide much-needed relief for the more than a quarter of a million businesses that have applied for these loans. And these numbers will continue to rise quickly. Again, far greater than anything we could have expected. We thank you and we thank the thousands of employees for responding. And, by the way, we’re going to be going for, it looks like, a very substantial increase in the number because we’ll be running out of money pretty quickly, which is a good thing in this case, not a bad thing. And Steve will discuss it. But we’re in talks to supplement the fund and do more money. So it’s a — that’s the way it’s moving. But we’re going to help those small businesses receive these loans in record time. And we look forward to hearing about your incredible progress today, because many of you — and most of you — are going to be speaking for a couple of minutes, just to say what you’re doing. And we have a lot of media present. The room is loaded up with media, as much as they can, considering we have social distancing. We’re practicing social distancing. I don’t even know — when I’m looking, I’m not sure if they’re practicing it as hard as they should be, but they are practicing it. And there’s a lot of media. Our entire society has mobilized to defeat the invisible enemy, save lives, and save jobs. Your companies are playing a vital role in this fight, and I’m very, very grateful to you. And, with that, I’m going to ask Ivanka to start and then Secretary Mnuchin, Administrator Carranza, and Larry Kudlow say a few words quickly. And then we’re going to get to you, if you have any questions or anything, it would be great. As I said today, we just asked Congress to pass legislation to fund an additional $250 billion for the Paycheck Protection Program. So we’re going to be raising it up to a new level. And the way it’s going, we’re going to need that because it’s really going. People are loving it. They’re really loving it. So I’ll start with Ivanka. Thank you. Thank you very much, Steve. Thank you. Please. Well, thank you. And it’s true; the community banks have been incredible. It’s really amazing the way they stepped up. I’m very happy. And they know many of the people that we’re dealing with, so it’s really terrific. Larry Kudlow, please? Thank you, Larry, very much. And, as you know, our dollar — our currency has remained very, very strong. Other currencies are not doing well at all. But our currency has done incredibly well. Very, very strong. A lot of it — assets to that. And sometimes it makes life a little more difficult for going outside of the four walls. But it’s — it means that everybody wants to be in. And we find anytime we go out, they just want to jump into our currency. There’s nothing like it, and I don’t think it’s ever been any stronger or better or more powerful, especially relative to other currencies and other nations. I think that’s a great thing. It’s great for all of you — that, I know. Ivanka, please. Well, Brian, you’ve been fantastic, and Bank of America has been incredible. You were right out there, right at the beginning, and we appreciate it. You probably noticed I mentioned your name a few times two day ago, when it all started. So we appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. And a really great job. And Goldman Sachs — a friend of mine for a long time, David Solomon. Please, David, go ahead. Good. Well, David, that’s fantastic. It’s $550 million. I hope the media understands what that is. That’s a lot. And we are going to work on that. We think you’re right. And we appreciate it. And thank Dina Powell for me, please. She has been fantastic. A friend of ours for a long time. And we appreciate it. Great job, David. Great job. Thank you. Thank you very much. And Darrin Williams of Southern Bancorp — CEO. Hi, Darrin. Thank. Thank you very much, Darrin. Great job. Appreciate it very much. We have Gordon Smith of JPMorgan Chase. Thank you. Thank you. Well, thank you very much, Gordon. And that’s a fantastic job. That’s some number of loans. How you people do it, I don’t know, but you do it. And a really great job. Thank you very much, Gordon. And Wells Fargo? Charles? Are you ready Charles Scharf? Thank you very much, Charles. Great job you’re doing. Appreciate it. Grand Rapids State Bank CEO, Noah Wilcox. Thank you very much, Noah. We’ll get that done, and we’ll get it done rapidly. Visa CEO Al Kelly. Thank you very much, Al. And bringing back the travel is going to be a very big thing. We’re working with the airlines. And we’re going to bring them back. I guess they need help, Steve — right? — at a high level. But we’re going to being them back. They’re ready to go. So thank you very much for what you said and for the great job you do, Al. Citibank. How are you, Michael? Hi. That’s good, Mike. Great job. Thank you. Yeah. Great job. Thank you very much, Michael. We appreciate it. And, really, a wonderful job you’ve done. Remember when banking used to be a nice, simple business, fellas? You remember that? Nice and simple. Not simple anymore, is it? Thank you very much, Michael. The Community Spirit Bank CEO, Brad Bolton. Well, Brad, that’s really nice. I think you’re the only banker that will pray for me daily. But I’m not too sure about some of those New York guys sitting there, if they pray for me. But they like me, but I don’t know if they pray for me. So, I appreciate that very much, Brad. Michael, you’re up. Mastercard. Terrific job. Well, that’s fantastic, Michael. I appreciate it. And that really is very generous. It’s going to be very good for you too. We really appreciate it. Thank you. This is the last, and then we’re going to say a few closing remarks. And Live Oak Bank, Chip Mahan. Is Chip there? Chip Mahan. Chip? Live Oak. I think they’re too busy, yeah. They’re doing a lot of loans. That’s all right. We’ll miss them desperately. Everybody wants to hear about Live Oak. But thank you anyway, Chip. Good job. You saved us a little time. I want to finish off — just, I want to ask Ivanka to say a few remarks, and then Steve. And then I’ll say something. But I — we really appreciate what you’re doing. Ivanka, please. Thank you, honey, very much. Steve? Thank you very much, Steve. An incredible job. And I hope the media here can see what an incredible job the banks have done, all of the people we’ve just heard from have done, and that the Treasury and all of you — the small business — you’ve never been so busy in your life. You’re setting records every day. But it’s really a tribute to government — really well-run government. And there are few glitches. Very few. Any little glitch, we had worked out within minutes, within hours. And there were a couple of — a little on applications, and they wanted to work it a little bit differently. Banks had some suggestions. And it was all done — probably, I would say 100 percent of it — in the first day. I just want to congratulate everybody. This has become so popular. It’s so good for business. It’s so good for our country. And it’s the engine of our country. Small business: the engine. They need a little help, and we’re going to give them a little help, and it’s going to be good for you all. So, it’s good for our country. That makes it good for you. So I just want to thank you. You’re friends. So many friends up there. I’m looking at this beautiful screen and so many familiar faces and people I respect and very much admire. And just keep up the great work. And any time you’d like, I’m here. I’m in the White House. I suggested maybe that, in about a month from now — maybe when things calm down a little bit, with respect to our hidden enemy — Steve will set up a meeting and we’ll meet with some of the banks and we’ll discuss what we can do for you to make it just go — not just this program, but other programs that you want or that you have, or if you have ideas for us to make the country hum. And that’s what we’re going to do; we’re going to make it hum. So you think of some ideas. Whether it’s a month or two months, we’ll meet at the White House and it’ll be a very productive meeting. So, Steve will set it up. Thank you all very much. Congratulations on this success. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Okay. Please. Thanks. Thanks. Okay. Yes? Well, it’s moving now. Separate. Totally separate. It just shows you, though, how positive it is. I mean, they’re looking at a unanimous vote, and that’s something. And then we’re talking about we’re negotiating a phase four. We’ll see how that all works out. But this would be separate. Well, we’re going to have a news conference in a couple of minutes, so we’ll do that. Okay? I know all about it. We’ll talk about it at the press conference. Okay? Thank you. I want — I want this — I’d like you to focus on this because this has really been a tremendous success. And then what we’re going to do is we’re going to have a press conference at about 5 o’clock, 5:15. And we’ll talk about that. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This week, America continues our aggressive effort to defeat the virus as we enter a crucial and difficult phase of the battle. We continue to send our prayers to the people of New York and New Jersey, and to our whole country. But right now, New York and New Jersey are very hot zones, and we’re with them. We’re with everybody. Your struggle is our struggle, and we will beat this virus. We will beat it together. I also want to send best wishes to a very good friend of mine and a friend to our nation, Prime Minister Boris Johnson. We’re very saddened to hear that he was taken into intensive care this afternoon, a little while ago, and Americans are all praying for his recovery. He’s been a really good friend. He’s been really something very special. Strong. Resolute. Doesn’t quit. Doesn’t give up. We have made tremendous progress on therapeutics. I had a fantastic call today, which I’ll be talking about a little bit later. And I’ve asked two of the leading companies — these are brilliant companies. Ebola, AIDS, others. They’ve come with the solutions and just have done incredible jobs. And I’ve asked them to contact London immediately. They have offices in London. They’re major companies. But more than major, more than size, they’re genius. And I had a talk with four of them today. And they speak a language that most people don’t even understand, but I understand something: that they’ve really advanced therapeutics and therapeutically, and they have arrived in London already. Their London office has whatever they need, and we’ll see if we can be of help. We’ve contacted all of Boris’s doctors, and we’ll see what is going to take place. But they are ready to go. But when you get brought into intensive care, that gets very, very serious with this particular disease. So, the two companies are there. And with what they are talking about — and it’s rather complex and has had really incredible results — we’re working with the FDA and everybody else, but we are working with London, with respect to Boris Johnson. Across the country, we’re attacking the enemy on all fronts, including medical, scientific, social, logistical, and economic. We’re pressing into action the full power of American government and American enterprise. And our military has been incredible. We’ve just sent 3,000 public health personnel. They’re now deployed in the New York area, and they’ll be over at the Javits Center, over at the great ship. And as you probably have heard — and I was informed that Governor Cuomo has already told you and announced — he called me up a little while ago, and he asked whether or not it would be possible to use the ship, with respect to fighting the virus. And we hadn’t had that in mind at all, but we’re going to let him do it, and we’re also going to let New Jersey. Governor Murphy — we spoke with him a little while ago, and New Jersey is going to use it also because New Jersey is a hot — a hotspot. So Governor Murphy and Governor Cuomo are going to be using the ship for New York, New Jersey. And it’s a big ship, and it’s now COVID; it’s set for COVID. And we are going to — hopefully that will be very helpful to both states. The Javits Center, which is 2,900 beds, just built by our military, also is going to be manned now by the military. And they should be in place tomorrow, and they’ll start sending quite a few people over to the Javits Center. It’s convenient. It’s right in the middle of everything. So that’ll be something great. And we appreciated Governor Cuomo’s nice — really nice statements and, likewise, Governor Murphy. We have worked very well with both of them and with, frankly, all of the governors. Vice President Pence had a call this morning with them that lasted for close to two hours. And I understand there wasn’t a negative person on the call. Fifty governors — or just about fifty governors — I think they were all on, from what I understood. And they were very positive about everything their federal government has been doing for them. And you’ll hear what that is, and it’s — it’s rather amazing, actually. Nationwide, the Army Corps of Engineers is building 22 field hospitals — these are big hospitals — and alternate care sites in 18 states. So you have a combination of 22 field hospitals. In addition to that, we’re building alternate care sites, which is a little bit of a smaller version of the hospital. And we have a lot of them, and they’re going up in 18 different states. In total, we have deployed 8,450 hospital beds from federal stockpiles. And, you know, if you think, this is done over a period of — really, a period of weeks. It’s incredible, actually. More than 8,000 ventilators have been sent from the National Stockpile to our cities and states, backed by the Defense Production Act, which we’ve used very strongly, very powerfully. So powerfully that we don’t have to use it too much, frankly. And it’s nice when you don’t have to. We’re getting more than we ever bargained for. American industry is stepping up. Manufacturers are really going to town. And we have thousands of ventilators being built as we speak, and we have hundreds that are being sent to different locations, and we’re ready to roll with almost 10,000 that we have in the federal stockpile. When I say “ready to roll,” too, I mean exactly what that states: We are — wherever that monster goes, we’re able to move with it. Great flexibility. We have tremendous flexibility. And we have people waiting, and they’re ready, willing, and able, but waiting to bring them wherever it may be, if they need it. If they need it. It’s possible that they won’t be needed, that we’re fully stocked, because numbers are coming in where, because of what the American people are doing, we’re having fewer hospital visits. I think that could be the case in New York. It could be the case in a few other states. And fewer beds, fewer hospital visits mean fewer ventilators. So we’ll see whether or not our original projections were right. But anyway, I had a very good talk with both governors, and I think they’re very happy — extremely happy about the — what we’re doing for them, and especially going all COVID. So that’ll take place almost immediately. FEMA and HHS have directly distributed 11.7 million N95 respirators. Think of that. Get the number. 11.7 million N95 respirators. 11.7 million. 26.5 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns, and 22.6 million gloves. 22.6 million gloves. We have also arranged for vast quantities of additional materials to be allocated through donations and existing supply chains. We’ve also given tremendous medical material and supplies throughout the 50 states and territories. And through Project Airbridge, we have succeeded in bringing planeloads of vital supplies into the United States from overseas. We had an additional three. These are massive planes, by the way. The big planes — they’re very big, very powerful, and they’re loaded to the gills with supplies. And rather than bringing them into our stockpile, as we’ve discussed, we bring them to all the different locations where they’re needed so we can save a big step and a timely step. Because of my actions, under the DPA, I can also announce today that we have reached an agreement — a very amicable agreement — with 3M for the delivery of an additional 55.5 million high-quality facemask — facemasks each month. So that we’re going to be getting, over the next couple of months, 166.5 million masks for our frontline healthcare workers. So the 3M saga ends very happily. We’re very proud to be dealing now with 3M and its CEO, Mike Roman. I just spoke with him and I thanked him for getting it done. And Mike was very happy to get it done. It’s a great company. So we’re getting 166.5 million masks, and mostly that’s going to be for our frontline healthcare workers. Okay? That’s 3M. Thank you, 3M. I also want to thank Apple, one of the many great American companies that’s taken into — that’s really leapt into action. Today, Apple announced that it is now producing plastic face shields for healthcare workers at the rate of 1 million per week. One million. And these are the shields that you see on television quite a bit. And they’re at the highest level of quality and safety. We’re grateful, as well, to Salesforce, which has donated 48 million pieces of personal protective equipment, including masks, gowns, suits, and face shields. So thank you very much to Salesforce. I urge all of our nation’s governors to ensure that the massive deliveries that we’ve made to your states over the past few weeks are distributed as quickly as possible. So again, we’re working very well with the governors. Now, they may see you and say, “Oh, we’re not happy.” But they’re very happy on the phone. And Mike Pence is a straight shooter, and he had a great phone conversation to them, with all of the governors. Teleconference. And they’re very happy, every one of them. Were there any negatives? See? I told you. Mike is the greatest. Mike — and you have done a great job, Mike, and I appreciate it. The whole country appreciates it. So — and it’s going up at a rapid rate. Nobody has done more testing. And one of the reasons why they say — and I think I can say this, Deborah, very strongly — but one of the reasons that we have more cases is we’ve done more testing. If I went to some of these countries that have, in my opinion, far more people than we do, that had the problem, and if we did the kind of testing proportionately that we’re doing, they’d have many more cases than us. But we have more cases because we do much more testing. So when you do the testing, you have cases. Otherwise, you wouldn’t know about the cases. People sit home; you don’t know about it. But we have now done 1,790,000 tests nationwide. That’s more than any other country in the world, hence we have more cases. And that number is growing by nearly 125,000 people per day. Think of that one. So it’s growing by 125,000 people per day. I told you about South Korea. This is a, you know, vastly faster — and we also have, they say, the most accurate of tests. CVS is launching — and they’ve been great — two new drive-through testing sites in Atlanta, Georgia, and Providence, Rhode Island. And each location will be able to test up to 1,000 patients per day using the ultra-fast five-minute test developed by Abbott Labs. Now they’re down to five minutes. They call it the “ultra-fast” and it’s very accurate. Abbott Labs, I want to thank them. They’ve been fantastic. We’re also speeding urgent economic relief to the American worker and families and the employers. As of today, tens of thousands of small businesses have applied for more than $40 billion in relief under the Paycheck Protection Program. You’ve all been reading about it. And it’s really — I mean, it’s only been going for a couple of days. It’s really been performing well. A couple of little glitches — minor glitches that have already been taken care of, what they say. These funds will result in nearly 2 million jobs being preserved. So we’re taking care of our workers — small businesses and our workers. Nearly 3,000 lenders have already made loans under the program, and we’re signing up additional lenders very quickly — rapidly. Community banks have been very responsive, and larger banks are also stepping up. If this — if we run out of funds — by the way, we’re already preparing because it’s going so fast for the small businesses and their employees — we’ll ask Congress to refill it immediately. But the banks have been great. The big banks — the Bank of America was right up there at the beginning. JPMorgan Chase was — has been great. After the first day, they really — they really came through, and a lot of the big banks. But the community banks have been fantastic. As we announced last week, we are providing $100 billion in direct support for our hospitals. And the first tranche, $30 billion, will be distributed this week. So I want to — I want to say one other thing. Our farmers — we love our farmers — and, as you know, as of April 1st, the China trade deal — 250-billion-dollar — they purchased $250 billion from us, if not more. And of that, approximately $50 billion is expected to be with our farmers. So it kicked in as of April 1st, and we’ll see how it goes. It seems like they’re buying. So we’ll let you know how that’s going. But they’re buying anywhere from $40- to $50 billion worth of our agricultural product. That should have a huge impact on our farmers — a tremendous impact on our farmers. But we’re watching it very closely. To fight the medical war, we’ve mobilized the unbeatable — and it just — it is unbeatable — strength of American determination, ingenuity, and compassion. I got to see that when I spoke to the great science — because I call them “science companies” more than drug companies. They’re scientists. We’ve seen businesses, charities, and private citizens making generous donations. So many people are making donations. We’ve seen states and cities supporting and helping each other and caring for our citizens. And we’ve seen Americans of all backgrounds and beliefs uniting together to answer the challenge and rise to the moment. And that’s what they’re doing. Above all, we have been awe-inspired by the exceptional courage of the doctors, nurses, EMTs, and healthcare workers who are the soldiers of this war. No words can ever express the complete measure of our gratitude for these intrepid heroes. One Cleveland patient credited his medical team for not only saving his life through their skill, but forever changing his life through their example of selfless devotion. Couldn’t believe it — so generous he was with his statements. And he talked about their bravery in an area that was in such trouble — an area of that hospital where people were dying. And he talked about their bravery. Another survivor in Houston said simply, “I will consider them my angels forever.” “I will consider them” — think of that — “my angels forever.” As our nation endures the depths of loss and grief, we are also witness to the summit of American virtue, character, and courage. With the love and dedication of every American patriot, we will win this battle, we will defeat this enemy, and we will rise from this present crisis with new strength, unity, and resolve. And that’s what’s happening. Tremendous stories are coming out of this horrible moment. A very dark moment for the world. One hundred and eighty two. I was saying 151 for a while, and then it got up to 160. And it’s 182, as I announced yesterday. A hundred and eighty-two countries are being attacked by this virus. So I just want to thank everybody, and I want to thank the American citizens for doing a great job. Stay inside. And let’s win this, and let’s get our country open as soon as we can. I think it’s going to be sooner than people think. Things are going really well. Again, light at the end of the tunnel. And with that, I’ll take a few questions. And then Mike is going to take over and talk with the Admiral and with the professionals. And we appreciate you being here. Yes, please. Yeah. Well, it’s a very — yeah, it’s a very complex treatment of things that they’ve just recently developed and that they have a lot of experience with, having to do with something else, but recent for this. And they’ll be — they’ve already concurred. They’ve already had meetings with the doctors. And we’ll see whether or not they want to go that route. But when you’re in intensive care, it’s a big deal. So they’re there and they’re ready. I think we have — we have three of them. We have — I spoke with four. You know who the four would be. And you know the people within those — you probably — you’d know the companies if I told you the companies. But the people are the greatest — the greatest in the world. So they’re at the hospital, and we’ll see. And they have — they have everything with them, should it be needed. Hopefully — hopefully it won’t have to be needed, but should it be needed. I just — I’ve found him — I’ve found Boris to be a fantastic person. Just, like, a fantastic warm, strong, smart guy. He loves his country. You see that. I mean, he fought like — like hell for his country. And intensive care is big stuff. Really big stuff. No, I don’t think so. Mike had his test a couple of days ago. I had my test a couple of days ago. So — and we’re here, and here you are. So, no, I don’t think so. But I think we’ll probably — just because of questions like that, I think we’ll probably have maybe quite a few tests. It’s not the worst idea. You know, the system of testing now is so quick and so easy. So, I could see — And you were tested again today? You sure you’re okay? Good. Then I’m staying here. Yeah. Well, it’s just wrong. It’s just wrong. Did I hear the word “inspector general”? Really? It’s wrong. And they’ll talk to you about it. It’s wrong. Uh, it’s — well, where did he come from — the inspector general? What’s his name? No, what’s his name? What’s his name? Well, find me his name. Let me know. Okay? If you find me his name, I’d appreciate it. All I can tell you is this: We put up on the board — You’re going to ask — you’re going to ask the Admiral. But we are doing — Fine. Then speak to the Admiral. But we’ve done more testing and had more results than any country, anywhere in the world. They’re doing an incredible job. Now they’re all calling us. They want our testing. “What are we doing?” “How do you do the five-minute test?” “How do you do the 15-minute test?” So, give me the name of the inspector general. Could politics be entered into that? Go ahead, please. Go ahead. I don’t like that decision, if that’s — I don’t — I didn’t hear that that was his decision. I know that he stopped it for other countries. I spoke to him yesterday. We had a very good talk. And we’ll see whether or not that is. I would be surprised if he would, you know, because India does very well with the United States. For many years, they’ve been taking advantage of the United States on trade. So I would be surprised if that were his decision. He’d have to tell me that. I spoke to him Sunday morning. I called him. And I said, “We’d appreciate your allowing our supply to come out.” If he doesn’t allow it to come out, that would be okay, but, of course, there may be retaliation. Why wouldn’t there be? Yeah, please. I don’t think so. I think it’s done very well. Not anymore, they haven’t. Bank of America has been the leader, taking tremendous numbers of applications, and, of course, there may have been — they wanted to have a slightly different application, they wanted to have a little different information. But Bank of America has been a leader. They had number one in terms of applications. I wish you’d ask the question differently. Why don’t you say, “It’s gotten off to a tremendous start, but there are some little glitches” — which, by the way, have been worked out? It would be so much nicer if you’d do that. But you’re just incapable of asking a question in a positive way. It’s already done. It’s already done. It’s taken the measures. It’s taken the measures. And we may even do a different system. Not with this. We’re going to have to probably add more money to this, to save — and to keep our small businesses going and to keep the employees of those small businesses working. But it’s such a positive event and you ask it in such a negative way. It’s just — I wish — I wish we had a fair media in this country, and we really don’t. Speaking of unfair, go ahead. Well, I haven’t heard it exactly. I haven’t heard. I heard they had a statement that was made. If that were the statement — it’s a strong statement. Look, the letters shouldn’t have been sent, and certainly they shouldn’t have been leaked. This is a military operation. I must tell you, I’ve heard very good things about the gentleman — both gentlemen, by the way — I will say this. But about both gentlemen. And I may look into it only from the standpoint that something should be resolved, because I’m hearing good things about both people. I may just get involved, if it’s okay with you. Yeah, because, you know what? You have two good people and they’re arguing. And I’m good, believe it or not, at settling arguments. I’m good at settling these arguments. So I may look into it in great detail — in detail. And I’ll be able to figure it out very fast. But that was a statement — and it’s a rough statement. But look — Look — look, letters should not have been sent to many people, unclassified. That was a mistake. It’s a mistake that shouldn’t have been made, because it’s unfair to the families of the people on the ship because they get nervous. And it shows weakness. And there’s nothing weak about us now. Not anymore. We have the strongest military we’ve ever had. And we’re not going to be showing weakness to anybody because we have — that ship is incredible — nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. And we don’t want to be doing — writing letters. We don’t want to have letter-writing campaigns where the fake news finds a letter or gets a leak. We don’t want that. So, the letter — Excuse me. So the letter shouldn’t have been sent. With all of that said, his career prior to that was very good. So I’m going to get involved and see exactly what’s going on there. Because I don’t want to destroy somebody for having a bad day. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay. He did. He did. We had a very good talk. We agreed that we weren’t going to talk about what we said, but we had a very, very good talk. It was a warm talk. I enjoyed it. I hope he enjoyed it, too. And it was short. It was 15 minutes. Well, he had suggestions. It doesn’t mean that I agree with those suggestions, but certainly he had suggestions. And I also told him some of the things we’re doing. But the conversation was a friendly — very friendly conversation. Yeah, please. It will be a difficult week and a half… True. Well, if Dr. Fauci said that, I would be inclined to call them up. You know, we do have a constitutional problem in doing that. You understand that. I mean, there’s a double — there’s a double-edged sword. You understand. I can do it, but it is a constitutional — you can say federalist, you can say there’s lots of different reasons, where I would rather have the governors do it, make their own determination. They’re smaller — and not in all cases but, sort of, they’re smaller cases. But I’m not sure 100 percent that Dr. Fauci said that, but you can ask him. Tony, you want to say something? Please. Go ahead. I think that with the therapies and I think that with the vaccines, which I have total confidence are coming — and I’m dealing with the companies. I’m talking to Johnson & Johnson, I’m talking to all of them. I think that when you add the tremendous stimulus that we’re giving — like, for instance, deductibility for restaurant expenses, for restaurants and entertainment; the money that we’re talking about for small businesses and employees to keep everybody working; and other things that we’re, frankly, working on right now, which are going to be great for our people — I think when you add that to it, I think we can get more than back to normal, from an economic standpoint. It would actually be better. But more than back to normal. But I — I would agree that we’d love to see a vaccine, but immediately, we’d love to see a therapeutic. And I think we’re getting very close. I don’t want to comment on that, but I can tell you that we certainly want to try. We certainly want to see what — what’s going on. We’re doing very well. Look, if you look at those, you look at most places where that — you can call it the “bump.” You could call it the “hill”. You can call it the “mountain.” You can call it — whatever you want to do it. It’s very flat. You take a look. And that was done through mitigation. That was done through a lot of good work. And that far exceeded our expectations before. I mean, you — people can’t even believe how — how low some of those bumps are, some of those hills are. They’re very surprised. They have a couple of tough ones. New Jersey has been very tough and New York has been very tough. They’re crowded in. You know, it’s tight, it’s tougher. But far exceeding. California far exceeds; Washington State far exceeds. You look at so many of these states, how well they’re doing. The eight states, by the way — and I haven’t spoken to the governors, but Tony is so right: They may not have it from the standpoint that they’re saying it, but those people are practicing it and they’re doing a fantastic job. Take a look at where they are, in terms of the levels. But take a look where they are. So — but if I thought it was something that — and I’ve looked at them, and I’ve looked at them very carefully. I looked at them today, looked at them yesterday. From a constitutional standpoint, I’d love not to get involved with that. And not from a legal standpoint, just from a moral, constitutional standpoint. Because legally, I can, but morally, I — you know, I believe in our Constitution, much more so than most people. And I’d love to be able to let the governors do what they have to do. Those states are doing a fantastic job, all eight of them. They’re doing a fantastic job. So we’ll see what happens. As for your question, you fully understand what I’m saying, so thank you. Yes, please. Well, I think Boris was looking at it differently. He was looking at it earlier. He was looking at it like “ride it out.” There were many people thinking about riding it out, meaning, you know, whatever it is, it is. But then you see what starts to happen and the numbers become monumental, and they decide not to do that. We actually moved early. We moved early because of what we did with respect to the ban on China coming in and then Europe coming in. That was an early ban too. And then UK. So, no, he — he waited a little while, and he — he felt that, but he got — you know, he made a decision very quickly thereafter to do what they did. And they they — they’ve gone to a very strict lockdown. But they’re suffering greatly as a nation right now. They’re going through a lot. You know, they’re — they’re a nation that’s having a difficult time. But I’ve gotten to know him. He’s just such an incredible guy. It was just so shocking to see that because you know what that means. Intensive care is a big deal with regard to what we’re talking about. That’s a very big deal, a very scary deal. Yeah, please. Yeah, I could get you that information. I think they’d — I think they’d probably be willing to give that. Right? Yeah, we could get you that information. Jeff, please? Yeah. Well, you’re the first one that’s told me that. I don’t know. We’ll have to make that decision. And maybe we will, maybe we won’t. But we’ll have to make that decision. I think the cuts are automatic. If you’re a believer in markets, I can guarantee you there’s a cut from pre this condition. You know, look, this happened because of the virus. The virus knocked out 40 percent. It was — it went down in one hour. I mean, literally, when places close up, you’re talking about a 40 percent cut. No, I think it’s happening automatically, but nobody has asked me that question yet, so we’ll see what happens. I’ll — I’ll let you know Thursday evening. Okay. Well, I think it’s automatic because they’re already cutting. I mean, if you look, they’re cutting back. Because it’s — its market, it’s demand. It’s supply and demand. They’re already cutting back, and they’re cutting back very seriously. Well, nobody has asked me that. So, if they ask me, I’ll make a decision. Okay? But I’ll — but again, it’s happening anyway. Yes, please. Yeah, so I had a physical. The first half was very successful. I did it on a day when I was in the White House and we were able to do that, as the doctor reported. And I have some — the second half of the physical different. Probably is done at Walter Reed, and I’ll do that at the appropriate time, but I feel very good. And according to the doctor, very good shape. I told you. I told you. He understood very well. I appreciate your understanding. It’s called the Constitution of the United States. And I’d rather have, if possible, for the governors to make the decision. If a decision was very necessary — and they have done a good job. And Tony said it better than anybody. They are — they are doing — they are doing what we’re asking them to do without having to put the seal on it. But I will say, if I thought it was necessary, I’ll do it in a heartbeat. Opening what? I haven’t seen — I’m going to have to see to what extent. I’m going to have to see how many people you’re talking about, are they crowded, are they packed, are they not packed. We’ll have to take a look at it. Right now, it’s very early for beaches in Georgia. So, right now, very early. So I’ll take a look at it. He’s done a very good job as the governor. He knows what he’s doing, but we’ll have to take a look. It really does depend on, you know, how crowded it may be. But I will talk to him and I will ask him that question. I would ask him. Yeah, please. We’re looking at it. And the airlines have been cutting their routes. You saw that yesterday. They announced big cuts in routes. We need some — some flights for emergency use for military people. We need some flights for medical people. And they are very few flights, as you know. And the flights that are going out are — I think they said they’re 3 to 4 percent full. You have 3 percent of the plane is occupied. So it’s — they’re very, very — generally, very, very empty planes. But it’s good to have — it’s a — it’s a tiny amount of flights, relative to the overall. And we need them also for medical workers, for — otherwise, we’re going to have to do a whole big thing with our own planes. So they’re done for a reason. There’s also testing done when people get onto those planes and also when people get off the planes. Well, it still could be her opinion. But when was she appointed? When was she appointed? Would you do me a favor? Let me know. No, no, let me know now. I have to know now, Jon. Let me know now. Because we are doing an incredible job of testing. We are doing a better job than anybody in the world right now on testing. There’s nobody close. And other nations admit this. Other nations have admitted it very strongly. Other nations are calling us, wanting to know about our testing. Let me know when she was appointed, would you? Go ahead, please. Okay, thank you very much. Go ahead, please. Yes. Right. People I know very well. Sounds like a statement more than a question. We just signed a trade deal. It’s the biggest deal probably ever made. And I hope they’re going to honor that trade deal. If they don’t honor the trade deal, then I’ll tell you a different answer, but I think they will. They’re going to spend billions of dollars for agriculture. They’re going to spend billions of dollars for many different things. Whereas China never spent money in our country — — we spent money. We had a deficit — a trade deficit — with China for years of $500 billion, $400 billion. We had the biggest trade deficits in the history of the world with China. Now China is going to spend a lot — has agreed to spend $250 billion — many billions of dollars in our country, much of it going to farmers and manufacturers. So, I’ll let you know. I mean, I hope they’re going to honor the deal. We’ll find out. I don’t know. Who are you working for? China? You work for China or are you with a newspaper? Who are you with? No, is it owned by the state? Okay, good. Okay. Look, I’ll let you know. I’ll give you a good answer to that in a few months. I want to just see what they do because it’s time for them to help us. Okay? It’s time right now for China to help us, and hopefully they do. And if they don’t, that’s okay too. But we signed a deal. It was signed in — with great goodwill and spirit. And it’s time that our farmers benefitted, our manufacturers benefitted, and we’ll see whether or not that deal is honored. And I think it will be because I know President Xi, who I like and respect. And I think he will honor the deal he made with us. It just went into effect four days ago. I will see whether or not. In fact, I called up just a little while ago. I said, “How are the farmers doing with respect to China? Are they buying the product as anticipated?” And the answer was, “Yeah, I think so.” But it wasn’t the most positive, but it was — it was starting. It was starting. The deal just started. So I’ll let you know. But, you know, for many, many years, China ate our lunch because we had people in this position that I’m in right now that allowed China to get away with absolute murder, and it should have never happened. But we are — we are now dealing with China. We’ll see what happens. Yeah. Go ahead. Wait. Wait. How many do you want to ask? How many do you want to ask? Good. Okay. We’re going to take a look at it. Go ahead. Don’t — don’t interrupt. He’s — he’s talking. I can’t tell you, but I know it goes out very quickly once the loan application is approved. And the process is very fast. And you have to understand: These are banks, and that’s what they do. But they were swamped. They were actually swamped. Okay, go ahead. Please. Put the — put the slide up again, please. Just put it up. Are you ready? Are you ready? Hospitals can do their own testing also. States can do their own testing. States are supposed to be doing testing. Hospitals are supposed to be doing testing. Do you understand that? We’re the federal government. Listen — We’re the federal government. We’re not supposed to stand on street corners doing testing. They go to doctors. They go to hospitals. They go to the state. The state is a more localized government; you have 50 of them. And they can go — 50 within here; you also have territories, as you know. And they do the testing. And if you look at the chart, if you take a look — did they put it up? Yeah. Just take a look. And these are testing and the results are now coming in very quickly. Initially speaking, the tests were old, obsolete, and not really prepared. We have a brand-new testing system that we developed very quickly, and that’s your result. And you should say, “Congratulations. Great job” — instead of being so horrid in the way you ask a question. Please. Go ahead. Yeah, I’d love to have the Admiral speak to that question. Yes. That’s a great idea. He’s the one in charge. How long has that person been in government? Could I ask you that? Oh, you didn’t tell me that. Oh, I see. You didn’t tell me that, Jon. You didn’t tell me that. Did serve in the previous admin- — you mean the Obama administration. Thank you for telling me that. See, there’s a typical fake-news deal. No, look. Look — You’re a third-rate reporter. And what you just said is a disgrace. Okay? You asked me — you said, “Sir, just got appointed.” Take a look at what you said. Now, I said, “When did they — when did this person — how long in government?” “Well, it was appointed in the Obama administration.” Thank you very much, Jon. Thank you very much. You will never make it. Go ahead, please. Boy, that’s a terrible thing. It’s about 9,000, just so you understand. It’s about 9,000. And, by the way, you didn’t tell me also that this inspector general came out of the Obama administration. You didn’t tell me that either. Okay, please go ahead. Go ahead, please. No, I understood his views before the call. I just think he’s a very nice — I think he’s a nice man. I’ve always thought he was a nice man. I’ve — I don’t know him. I don’t know if I ever spoke to him before, other than to say hello. But I think he’s a nice man. We had a very nice call. No, but we may — no. Not really. We may — we’re doing a great job. Hey, I inherited — we, this administration — we inherited a broken system, both militarily, but we’ve rebuilt our military where we now have so much ammunition, whereas you remember a very important general said, “Sir, we have no ammunition.” They wanted to save money on ammunition. They didn’t want to save money because they spent money like nobody ever spent money. But you know what? We now have a great military rebuilt. And we have so much ammunition, we don’t know what to do with it. Okay? And that’s a nice feeling to have. But they also gave us empty cupboards. The cupboard was bare. You’ve heard the expression: “The cupboard was bare.” So we took over a stockpile where the cupboard was bare and where the testing system was broken and old. And we redid it. And, frankly, it would be okay for a small event but not for a big event. And they had a chance to do it. Somebody said that a certain person — I won’t tell you, but a certain person said this will happen. And that’s true. The problem is that person never did anything about it — previous administrations. In previous admin- — they never did anything about it. You know, we all know all about pandemics and all of the things that we’re seeing now, but nobody thought it was going to happen. And if we did think it was going to happen, the problem is nobody did anything about it. We did. We have rebuilt the system. And now we’re a fine-tuned machine. We built thousands of hotel beds for New York. We moved a ship in that now we’re going to make for COVID — COVID-19. We are going to make it so that people having this horrible thing happen to them will be able to use the ship. The ship, as I said, is going to be shared with New Jersey — New York and New Jersey. We’ve done things that are incredible. When you build — what was it? Eighteen hospitals. We built 18 hospitals. We built medical centers all over the country. And when you have Gavin Newsom and other governors who really have been very nice and generous in their statements — because they make the statements to the press, not just to my face. Others tell us how great we’re doing — like the call that Mike had today. I heard from other people that were on the call; they said it was incredible. It was two hours, and it was — everything was positive. They were so happy with what we’ve done. And we’re ready to do more if they need it, because we’re ready to march. The Admiral can tell you: We are sitting there with 9,000 ventilators and we’re ready to march when we see that. We can move quickly. As soon as we see that need, we can move very quickly. We’re ready to march. We built a great system. The problem is, the Democrats — like a guy like Chuck Schumer, who’s a total lightweight, by the way; I’ve known him for a long time. He’ll say, “Why don’t you put a military man in charge?” A military man? I have all military men. This man is doing an incredible job. We have two admirals, numerous generals. We have the Army Corps of Engineers. We have FEMA. We have this whole force that like nobody has ever seen before. We have a great military operation and they’ve done an incredible job. And honestly, people should respect — because nobody has ever seen anything like what we’ve done. And what they end up — what — forget about me; don’t worry about me. I get — I will only get bad — if I say, “How many ventilators do you need, Governor?” “A thousand would be great.” I said “Nope, I’m going to send you 10,000.” And then you’ll call up from the media. You’ll say, “How did Trump do?” “We’re not happy. He didn’t send us enough ventilators.” Because that’s called politics. But if you look at what’s happening, that — and I’m even surprised. The governors are saying all good things. But the Democrat governors, and a couple of RINOs — frankly, they’re RINOs. It’s all they are — one RINO, in particular. But the governors are saying great things. He had a call that lasted two hours today. I heard about the call, not just from Mike. It was a perfect call. Now I’m sure you were on the call, even though you’re not supposed to be. I’m sure you were on the call — meaning some of the media was on the call, because they’re constantly reporting the call. If they’re honest, they will say it was a great call. Okay. Okay. Next question, please. Here we go. Here we go. We’re never going to do anything that hurts Texas. We’re only — we’re only helping Texas. By the way, the governor is doing a great job over there with the situation. And Texas is so big, you have some parts of the state that are affected, other parts that aren’t affected at all. You know, it’s an incredible place. No, we’re going to use whatever we need, and we’re doing it totally in conjunction with the governor. Okay? We’re doing it in conjunction with your Texas governor, who’s done a fantastic job. Great. Yeah. Very few people are coming through our border. And you’ll be happy to know we’re up to mile 161 of the wall. Oh, I see. Okay. But on the border between Mexico, we have 161 miles of wall. Okay, good. Well, I mean, look, you — first, you want us to call eight governors and tell them to do something. And then you’re complaining that another governor is so strict that he actually checks the borders. I understand why he’s doing that: because he knows who he has and he doesn’t want people coming in if they should maybe, you know, not be to — to the liking of the doctors. No, I think it’s — look, he’s done a great job. He’s done a great job with this case, as have many other governors. But he’s done a great job. One of the things I thought you were going to say is we’ve been very tough on our southern border, as you know. Very very tough. And part of that is because of the fact that we have so much — you know, when you talk about 160 miles of new wall, nobody is coming through that. Nobody. Not even close. And we’re building it rapidly. We will have — early next year, we’ll have close to 500 miles of wall, which is what our goal was. Please go ahead. I don’t know necessarily, but I certainly want to listen. And what I want to do is two things: a real infrastructure, not a Green New Deal. You know, the carbon footprint. I’m not looking for the carbon footprint. We want to put people to work. But a real — and, frankly, for so many years, we’ve let our infrastructure go to hell because we were wasting all our money in the Middle East and other places. Okay? I want to rebuild our country. I don’t want to rebuild — we’re tired. We’ve built — we’ve rebuilt, if you call it that — or destroyed, frankly. What we’ve done is so crazy. What we have done — the direction that this country has taken is so sad. But we’re in the Middle East for $8 trillion. And if you want to fix a pothole in a highway, you can’t do it because they don’t want to give you the funds. So we want to have an infrastructure bill — a real one, like in the vicinity of $2 trillion — to completely rebuild our roads, our bridges, our highways, our tunnels, everything. And I’m totally open to listening to that. I’m also open to listening to and even putting forward — because we’re going to be putting something forward — more money for our citizens because they’ve gone through trauma. This has been trauma. This came out of nowhere. When — and I say it and I’ll say it again: We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. We had the most people working in the history of our country, almost 160 million people — far more than ever before. And then one day, our professionals correctly came to us and they said, “Sorry, sir, we have to close down our country.” And I said, “Say it again. Say it again.” “We have to close down our country.” And the entire world closed down because of this hidden enemy. No, we — we are going to take good care of our people. It was not their fault. Go ahead. Yes, please. Deborah? So you did not get there? You did not get there? Good, I’m very happy about that. Your grandson is okay? That’s a lot of temperature, 105. That’s a lot of temperature. Thank you, Deborah. And it is making a big difference. I saw where Governor Cuomo was a little bit upset today. Over the weekend, a lot of people outside and they were — they were pretty big groups of people. I saw that. I noticed that. And he wasn’t happy with that. And I could understand that. Look, we have a period — a short period of time –hopefully, it’s a short period of time to go. And let’s get it done. Let’s get it done. Kristen, did you have a question? You’re so quiet today. It’s because you have your own show now, right? Yeah. Well, I was opposed to the way of distribution — money distribution — through, as you know, unemployment and through the state offices because they have very old com- — not all of them, but many of them — have 40- year-old equipment, as I’ve said. And it makes it very difficult. But that’s what they’re looking — that’s what they to do. That’s the way it’s mandated to do. I thought it would be better if we did a direct payment system, but the Democrats really wanted it. And I think they had some — some help from a couple of people that I would have — had I spoken to them, I would have convinced them otherwise, I really believe. But, so — but it’s getting out. And the federal government has done its job. All we can do is give this massive amount of money to the states. The states then are responsible to distribute it — a little bit like we’re talking about here. But the money will be right on time from the federal government, then the states have to do their job in getting it out. We could very well do a second round of direct. I would do it direct. It’s under — it is absolutely under serious consideration. Well, we have people that are so talented. I know the people he suggested. They’re wonderful people. They worked here. They’re wonderful people. He’s just doing that because it’s politics. Because you know what? We have many. Depending on what? In terms of testing, this gentlemen right here. In terms — you know who the point person is? This gentleman right here. He’s the one in charge of the task force. But, Mike, you may want to tell him about the — because this is really a military operation. Thank you, Mike. And, Kristen, when Schumer makes a statement like that, he’s only doing it for politics. He knows. We have the best generals, the best admirals. We have the best people. These are incredible leaders. These are vibrant people. They’ve done such a good job. And again, you’ll get a tape of the conversation because I’m sure some of the governors probably had their favorite reporter listening to the conversation, even though they weren’t supposed to. But that’s happened before. Just so you understand, we had a call today that was a beautiful call — everybody friendly, everybody happy. They also know, in some cases, we’ll get them a little bit more. And if they need it, we’ll get them a lot more, depending on where this monster is going. But when Schumer does that, take a look — take a look at the past — Well, you know, you’re going to have to tell me who. They certainly don’t — well, yeah, some Democrats, because they view this as a campaign issue, they want to make Trump look as bad as they can because they want to try and win an election that they shouldn’t be allowed to win, based on the fact that we have done a great job. We built the greatest economy in the world. I’ll do it a second time. We got artificially stopped by a virus that nobody ever thought possible. And we’ve handled it, and we’ve built a team, and we’ve built an apparatus that’s been unbelievable. Take a look at the swine flu. Right? That’s H1N1. Take a look at that. And it’s not the other way around, by the way. It’s H1N1. Take a look — you know what I mean by that. Take a look at the swine flu. It was a disaster; 17,000 people died. The other administra- — they didn’t even know — it was like they didn’t even know it was here. And that was peanuts compared to what we have, in terms of the power, the magnitude of what we’re going through. This is attacking 182 countries, simultaneously. So Schumer is just all about politics. I’ve known him almost all of my adult life. And he’s — he’s a disgrace. In many ways, he’s a disgrace. And he knows it’s . He just wants to do that. But he knows the job we’re doing. Everybody is amazed at the job we’re doing. And the public is starting to find out. They’re starting — you know, one of the reasons I do these news conferences — because if I didn’t, they would believe fake news. And we can’t let them believe fake news. They see us up here. They see us with admirals. They see us with this talent. They see the job that Mike Pence has done, which has been an unbelievable job. An unbelievable job. I put him there. I thought he’d do well. He did great as the governor of Indiana, and I thought Mike would do well. He’s done much better than well. And he gets along with people, I think, much better than I do. Because I like people being 100 — Mike can put up with things that — sometimes I say, “It’s amazing that he can put up with it.” But he’s done an incredible job and so has the entire team. This is a military operation. And again, we built 2,900 beds in Javits Center. We — we built medical centers in New York. In Chicago, we built 1,000 beds — much more now — in McCormick Place. That’s their big convention hall, the equivalent of Javits convention hall. Big McCormick Place. Fantastic place. By the way, the mayor of Chicago — at least on the phone — is extremely happy with what we’re doing. She’s thanking us. Has a great relationship with Mike. Thanking us. And I just wish the politicians would say to you what they say to us. Really. And it’s a good question. Do you have one? Yeah, please. And we’ll get to you. You said Latin America? Yeah. Yeah. It’s a good question. We’ve moved a tremendous number of boats and ships to the area of — you know, different areas of exactly where you’re talking about — because we are tired of drugs pouring into our country from other places. And we’re tired of seeing drugs pouring into different parts of Latin America, South America, and just coming into our country. Now we’ve got them stopped at the border and they’re trying to do it by sea. So we stop them at the border with — and, frankly, with the help of Mexico. Mexico, right now, has 27,000 soldiers on our southern border. They never had any soldiers. They’re doing that because I’ve asked them to do it. That’s the only reason they’re doing it. They have 27,000 soldiers. So now they’re trying to bring it in by boat and by ship — the drug lords and the people doing drugs — and trying to destroy our country from inside with drugs. And we’re hitting them very, very hard. And that’s why we’re doing that. Say it? Well, there are — there are the activities of human trafficking, and especially with respect to women. And, as you know, proportionally, it’s mostly women. And it’s a horrible thing. It’s a horrible thing. And there’s never been a time like it. And it’s because of the Internet. And this is all over the world. But, for the most part, they’re coming through — in this country, they’re coming through the southern border. But we’re hitting them very hard. They have tremendous illegal trafficking in women — and children also, but mostly in women. And it’s illegal. And it’s horrible. And it’s disgraceful. And I’ve seen things that are an absolute disgrace. And we’re trying to knock them out, and we’re knocking them hard. And again, I want to thank the President of Mexico because he has really stepped up to the plate. Twenty-seven thousand soldiers. They’ve never had any soldiers on our border. And I did that because the Democrats will not approve anything to stop — because they want to have open borders. They want to have all these people flowing through our border. And, in many cases, they’re sick. They have problems that we — you don’t want to know about. Or they’re criminals, in many cases. Not in all cases, but in many cases. And they don’t want to have bor- — they want to have open borders. They want to have sanctuary cities. So they protect criminals. And I don’t want to have it. And Joe Biden does want to have that also, as you know, because he said that during numerous debates. I want to have strong borders, and I don’t like protecting criminals with sanctuary cities. But we’re doing it for drugs. We’re doing it for human trafficking. We’re doing it because you have to do it. We either have borders or we don’t have a country. All right. Go ahead, please. Okay. I mean, I have an answer, but I’d rather have the Admiral answer that. Which nobody else can do, by the way. No other country can do it. Jeff, go ahead. A few more. We’ll do a few more. And then Mike is taking over, and you’re going to see some incredible work that’s been done. Go ahead, please. Yes. He had a bad day or a bad — bad week. But I — I don’t — yeah, I want to — I’m going to look into it. And I also — I also think our Navy Secretary — he’s a highly respected man. So sometimes that happens with people, and I’ll — I’ll take a look at it. He had a bad day. When he sends a letter out and he sends copies all over the place and it’s not a classified letter. And it was very disconcerting to the families of the people on the ship — were very disconcerting. So, number one, they get worried and scared. It was weak. We don’t want weak. But I’m going to take a look because he’s — I think he — you know, looks to me like he’s an outstanding guy. I looked — I looked at his whole — just a little while ago, I looked at his file. And people have bad days and we’ll take a look at it. Well, we’ll take a look. I want to look, I want to speak also to the Secretary. I also want to speak to the Secretary of Defense, who is Mark Esper, who is doing a fantastic job. And we’ll — you know, maybe I can help the situation out. I mean, you guys are saying, “Why is the President getting involved and going…” Well, I like to solve problems. It’s a problem. You know? I — I don’t want to see men hurt, women hurt. I don’t want to see people hurt unnecessarily. Maybe we can solve it easily where, you know, it’s not life changing. But he did — he did a bad thing, sending a letter out and many, many copies, as you know. I don’t know, I heard 28 copies. I heard a lot. That’s a lot of copies. Plus, the letter was five pages long. I haven’t read the letter, but I think it was five pages long, single spaced. That’s a lot of writing. You know, he’s the captain of a ship. He’s the — he’s a very important person of a very expensive ship, a nuclear-powered ship. He shouldn’t be writing letters like that. But it happens. Sometimes, I’ll write a letter that I say, “I wish I didn’t send it.” Not too often, but it happens. Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. Well, I don’t know want to comment on what he said. I — I understand. It’s — it’s tough language, but I don’t want to — let’s not get into that. It’s tough language. Now, there are some people that think, “Oh, wow, he says it like it is.” Look, he made a mistake. He should not have sent that letter or he should have gone through his chain of command, which is the typical way of doing it. You know, he’s in the military. He’s a very important person in the military. He knows it better than anybody in this room what he should have done and I’m sure he feels he made a mistake. But I’m going to look into it, and I’m going to see — maybe we can do something, because I’m not looking to destroy a person’s life who’s had an otherwise stellar career, as I understand it. I looked at his file just now because I’ve been seeing what’s going on. If we can save — if we can save a person’s career — I don’t mind going after a person if they did something wrong. And, you know — but this was a mistake. He made a mistake. I’m not justifying what he did. He made a mistake. He shouldn’t be sending letters. He’s the captain. He’s a very important person in the military. You don’t send letters and then it leaks into a newspaper. Of all newspapers, that was a beauty. Right? So you just don’t do that. So, it was a mistake. But I may get involved. I’ll call Secretary of Defense and find out a little bit about it. And if I can help two people — two good people — I’m going to help them. Say it? On the captain? No, it hasn’t. I mean, look — Okay, ready? I — I said — when you asked me and when the question was asked the last time, I said, “Shouldn’t have sent the letter.” I haven’t changed. He shouldn’t have sent the letter. And it should’ve — if there’s a letter, it should go classified and it should go to his superior. And he shouldn’t be jumping over his superior. So, I’m — it hasn’t changed, in that regard. The only thing that has played right up here with me is that I looked at his record. And he’s been an outstanding person. If he wasn’t, I wouldn’t even be talking about this. He’s been an outstanding person. He’s had a very exemplary military career. I mean, you know, he started off as a helicopter pilot. They called him “Chopper.” His name was “Chopper.” He was a great helicopter pilot. It’s a tremendous skill. I know a lot about helicopters. And then he went to F-16s or F-18s, and he was a tremendous pilot. And then — he’s very smart. He studied nuclear energy and he was fantastic — and very few people have the aptitude, they have the mentality to do that. Nuclear energy is very complex. Very — it’s very hard. Very few people can do it. And he did it well. And then he became the captain of a nuclear ship. Right? He became — of a — a replacement costs — if you look at replacement costs: $18 billion of replacement cost. Right? So he’s got — on a replacement-cost basis, an $18 billion ship. You know, the President Gerald Ford — very expensive. That’s, you know, the nearest thing I can think of. But they’re spending money on that one like nobody’s ever seen. So, he made a mistake. He made a mistake. And maybe we’re going to make that mistake not destroy his life. Okay, a couple of more. A couple of more. Go ahead. Yeah. I know. Very much on my mind. It doesn’t have to be phase four. I think it could be a separate phase when it’s all over. Right now, I don’t think they want to think about it. These people don’t want to think about it. These people are incredible. They’re not thinking about, “How much am I getting paid?” These people are incredible. I’ve seen it. I see the spirit. I hear about it all the time from Mike, from the Admiral. I hear about it all the time. These people are incredible. When it’s all over, I do want to seriously think — maybe in the form of bonuses. These people are — what they’ve done is incredible. I just — I just admire the attitude and I’ve said it. I just — they walk into those hospitals and they are seriously — you know, one of the things that came up with the Comfort, the ship, is that when we — we fulfilled the request of Governor Cuomo and Governor Murphy — and they’re going to be splitting it. But, you know, a lot of the things happen to ships when you do the — you know, it’s a lot of — they didn’t want to do this. In fact, they specifically didn’t want to do this: have patients that were affected with this horrible disease or whatever — the plague — because, frankly, it’s a plague. That’s exactly what it is. You’d read about it in the old days. The plague. And that’s exactly what it is. But we’re doing it. But when I see the bravery of these people walking through doors without their stuff — I mean, they’re half — they’re just getting — they’re not standing outside, “Hey let’s get ready. Let’s…” They’re running through doors, putting on the stuff. It’s not even on. I think it’s incredible. I’m telling you, the nearest thing I can think of is soldiers in battle and soldiers going right into battle, because that’s what they’re doing. It’s really — in many ways, it’s the same thing. All right. How about one more? Could be. I hope it’s rescheduled. I hope — I hope football is able to start. I hope baseball can get to play a little bit. I hope basketball can maybe do their playoffs. I mean, hey, I have no — I have no interests or anything other than I want what’s good for the country. Yeah, a lot of people are tired — yeah, a lot of people are tired of looking at games that are five years old. I looked the other day, I saw somebody, I said, “Wow, he looks great.” I forgot. I said, “Oh, that was nine years ago.” You know, I said, “He’s really in great shape.” Well, not in a great shape now, but he was in great shape then. It was nine years ago. You know, you get tired of looking at 9-year-old baseball games and — and playoff games that took place 12 years ago. I don’t have much time to do that, frankly, but that’s what people are doing, and they want to see sports. Sports are a great thing for this country. And I hope football can start. And I told them, “I think you might be able to.” They may very well be able to. I hope they can start and I hope they can start with people in the stands. You know, we’re not going to be separated. But you have seats. Those seats are meant for people to sit next to each other. And when this virus is gone, people are going to be sitting next to each other. And just for the restaurant industry, so they understand, when the virus is gone, people are going to be sitting next to each other. One man said, “I have a 200-seat restaurant. It’s been great. But if I go by these rules, those 200 seats goes down to 60.” I said, “No, no. You have a 200-seat restaurant. That’s what you have.” But we have to wait till the virus goes away. It wouldn’t even do well at 60. Frankly, there’s a warmth to it also. There’s a warmth. But not when we have the virus in the air. Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. So I’m going to let our Vice President take over. He’s got some really interesting numbers, statistics. And I want to thank the Admiral. I want to thank Tony and Deborah and everybody else. I want to thank everybody that’s working. And I really do — I see a lot of tremendous things happening. And the therapeutics — the call I had today was one of the most exciting calls I’ve had in a long time. And again, I want to wish my best to the UK and the family of Boris Johnson. And we just hope he’s going to be okay because he’s — he’s a fine guy. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Thanks. Okay, thank you very much, everybody. All these people have been working very, very hard today, I’ll tell you. For a long time, they’ve been working. But before I begin, I want to express our nation’s well wishes to Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus. All Americans are praying for him. He’s a friend of mine. He’s a great gentleman and a great leader. And he’s — as you know, he was brought to the hospital today, but I’m hopeful and sure that he’s going to be fine. He’s a strong man, a strong person. Today, every patriotic American heart beats in solidarity with the incredible people of New York and New Jersey. They’ve really become a very hot zone, but some very good things are happening. In New York, the first time where the deaths were less from the previous day. That’s the first drop so far. So maybe that’s a good sign; it could be. And the hospital levels are starting to perhaps decrease. It’s been very short, but perhaps decrease. So we wish Governor Cuomo and all of the people in New York great. And, New Jersey, your governor is doing a great job. He’s doing a great job in New Jersey. They got hit very hard. I just want to say that the full power of the American government and American enterprise — it really is. This is an all-out military operation that we’ve waged, and especially over the last number of weeks. Fifty states and territories have now been approved for major disaster declarations, which is very unusual. Thanks to the Army Corps of Engineers, New York City’s Javits Center is now one of the largest hospitals in the United States. It’s designated for treatment of the virus patients and staffed by hundreds of federal medical personnel deployed from two Army hospital units, and they’re doing a great job. This was something that we didn’t expect to do, but they needed help in New York and we sent federal troops — not only troops, we also sent a lot of very talented doctors, nurses, first responders. People are now running Javits. Also, as you know, the USNS Comfort, which is in New York — there’s been a lot of publicity about that coming in and all. That was not supposed to be for the virus at all, under any circumstances. But it looks like, more and more, we’re going to be using it for that. So we’ll see. That was supposed to be for people having other medical problems, but it’s very interesting because there are virtually no cars on the road, no motorcycles on the road, no — no anything on the road. Things that would normally be taken care of, we don’t see anymore. So we haven’t seen that in a long time. It’s, perhaps, a positive. But the ship is ready. And if it has to, if we need it — if we need it for the virus, we will be using it for that. They’d prefer not, for obvious reasons, but if for any reason they need it, it’s ready, willing, and able. We have the best doctors, the best military leaders, and the best logistics professionals anywhere in the world. And we’re orchestrating a massive federal response unlike anything our country has ever seen or done. We’ve never done anything like this. And, more and more, we’re using our medical people because of the fact that jurisdictions, states — in particular New York, New Jersey, the Connecticut area. Long Island now has become a hotspot — part of New York. We’re sending a lot of things, a lot of supplies, and now we’re sending personnel where it’s needed. Military personnel. As of Tuesday, we’ll have deployed over 3,000 military and public health professionals to New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and other parts of our country — 3,000 — and that number is going up. And we hope we’re seeing a leveling off in the hottest spots of them all. So we’ll see. You’ll be seeing that over the next few days. Let’s see what happens. But we’re prepared. In the last seven days, FEMA has airlifted critical supplies and protective equipment from every corner of Earth. They’re coming from all over the planet, including from within the United States, where the equipment isn’t as necessary. Since last Sunday, cargo planes have delivered almost — listen to this — 300 million gloves, almost 8 million masks, and 3 million gowns. And many more fully loaded cargo planes are right now on the way. Three big ones landed today. And these supplies are being distributed directly to the hospitals and healthcare providers all across the nation so that that massive amount of material that we’re getting in is being delivered all over the country. Tomorrow, we’ll deliver an additional 600,000 N95 masks to New York City to take care of the needs of the public hospital system. It was requested — Mayor de Blasio. We’ve been working great with Mayor de Blasio, getting him a lot of stuff. He’s working very hard; I can tell you that. And we’re working, really, very hard with New York City and with New York State. And at the request of Congressman Lee Zeldin, out in Long Island, we will also be delivering another 200,000 N95 masks to Suffolk County, where they need it very badly. So we’re getting that out on an emergency basis. It should be there tomorrow. We’ll also be deploying millions of N95 masks to other locations that Admiral Polowczyk will detail shortly. The Admiral will be up in just a couple of minutes. Over the last 24 hours, FEMA has delivered an additional 500 ventilators to New Jersey. Five hundred. And again, the governor has been very thankful. We’re working very hard with New Jersey, including building hospitals. We’ve also sent an additional 200 ventilators to Louisiana — a definite hotspot. Three hundred to Michigan — working very well, I think, with the governor. Amazingly, 600 will be going or have gone to Illinois. And, I mean, there’s a governor — I hear him complaining all the time — Pritzker. I hear him; he’s always complaining. And yet, I just said, “Give me a list of a couple of the things we’ve done in Illinois.” And we’re building a 2,500-bed hospital in McCormick Place; that’s the big convention center in Chicago. And we’re helping to staff it and probably will end up staffing it because he’s not able to do what you’re supposed to be able to do as a governor. He has not performed well. And we’re also sending 100 ventilators to Massachusetts. So we have 600 to Illinois. We have 100 to Massachusetts. We have 300 to Michigan. We have 200 to Louisiana. We have 500 ventilators — 500 — going to New Jersey. And this is being done by FEMA. It’s being delivered by FEMA. And it’s — that’s some job. Just think of that. When you think about 500 ventilators, a ventilator is a big deal. We’re also establishing a federal medical station in the Washington, D.C., area to help Washington, D.C., and working very closely with the mayor and everybody in Washington, D.C. At the same time, Governor Inslee — we appreciate this — of Washington State has returned 400 ventilators, which can now be deployed elsewhere in our country. So the State of Washington has done very well. They won’t be needing some of the ventilators that have been sent — about 400. That’s a lot. And we appreciate that he’s able to give them back. He feels confident that they are in good shape for the coming weeks, until we can declare a final victory. In the days ahead, America will endure the peak of this terrible pandemic. Our warriors in this life-and-death battle are the incredible doctors and nurses and healthcare workers on the frontline of the fight. We pledge to them our eternal gratitude and everlasting support. They make all of us very proud. Our country is very proud. We have people — they love our country. The world loves our country, most of it. Probably all of it; they just don’t say it. I can report today that the United States has now tested and given results — gotten results of 1.67 million people. That’s far more than any other country has been able to do. And you remember, we inherited a broken system. So a lot of this has been developed. By Tuesday, 1,200 brand-new rapid point-of-care testing kits has been produced by Abbott Laboratories. A great company. And they’ll be distributed to all of our public health labs — that’s a 15-minute test; even less — as well as the Indian Health Service, the CDC, and the Strategic National Stockpile. So we’re going to have 1,200. And on a weekly basis, we’re making a lot more. They go very fast. They’re very accurate tests. And other countries are wanting them. So, at the right time, we’ll be able to do that. But right now, we’re getting them to all of ours. So we’ve done 1,670,000 tests. Think of that: 1,670,000 tests. And we have a great system now. We’re working with the states in almost all instances, but we have a great system. And the other thing that we bought a tremendous amount of is the hydroxychloroquine — hydroxychloroquine — which I think — as you know, it’s a great malaria drug. It’s worked unbelievably. It’s this powerful drug on malaria. And there are signs that it works on this. Some very strong signs. And, in the meantime, it’s been around a long time. It also works very powerfully on lupus. Lupus. So there are some very strong, powerful signs, and we’ll have to see. Because again, it’s being tested now. This is a new thing that just happened to us — the “invisible enemy,” we call it. And, if you can, if you have a — no signs of heart problems, the azrithromycin [sic] — azithromycin — which will kill certain things that you don’t want living within your body — it’s powerful drug — if you don’t have a problem, a heart problem, we would say: Let your doctor think about it. But as a combination, I think they’re going to be — I think they’re two things that should be looked at very strongly. Now, we have purchased and we have stockpiled 29 million pills of the hydroxychloroquine — 29 million. A lot of drugstores have them by prescription, and also — and they’re not expensive. Also, we’re sending them to various labs, our military. We’re sending them to the hospitals. We’re sending them all over. I just think it’s something — you know the expression, I’ve used it for certain reasons: “What do you have to lose?” What do you have to lose? And a lot of people are saying that when — and are taking it — if you’re a doctor, a nurse, a first responder, a medical person going into hospitals, they say taking it before the fact is good. But what do you have to lose? They say, “Take it.” I’m not looking at it one way or the other, but we want to get out of this. If it does work, it would be a shame if we didn’t do it early. But we have some very good signs. So that’s hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin. And, again, you have to go through your medical people, get the approval. But I’ve seen things that I sort of like. So what do I know? I’m not a doctor. I’m not a doctor. But I have common sense. The FDA feels good about it. They’ve — as you know, they’ve approved it. They gave it a rapid approval. And the reason: because it’s been out there for a long time and they know the side effects and they also know the potential. So, based on that, we have sent it throughout the country and we have it stockpiled — about 29 million doses. Twenty-nine million doses. We have a lot of it. We hope it works. Driven by the goal of the brightest minds in science — we have the brightest minds in science, but we’re driven by the goal of getting rid of this plague, getting rid of this scourge, getting rid of this virus. These brilliant minds are working on the most effective antiviral therapies and vaccines. We are working very, very hard. I have met many of the doctors that are doing it. These are doctors that are working so hard on vanquishing the virus. They’re staying — we strongly recommend staying at home, practicing vigorous hygiene, and maintaining social distance, so you’re — you’re just not going to catch it. It’s the most effective weapon in this war. And I will tell you, the — we are committing to the — to you. We’re committing to the people of our country like few administrations, few people, few professionals have ever committed before. They are — they are working so hard. I see them. I see them before my eyes, exhausted — people that I’m dealing with every day, exhausted. They haven’t left their offices. They haven’t left their hospitals. We meet with them. We see them. And tremendous strides have been made. I think the vaccines — we’ll have a report on that. But the vaccines — we’re working together with other countries. We’re also working with other countries — many other countries. And we all want everyone else to be first. We’re very happy. But we are very far down the line on vaccines. We’ll see how that all works. Johnson & Johnson is doing a great job, working very hard. A vaccine would be great. Therapy — a therapy and therapeutics would be great. We’ll see what happens. In the meantime, you may listen to what I said about the two drugs mentioned. My administration is rapidly implementing the largest emergency economic relief package in American history. You’ve seen what’s been happening. Billions of dollars in small- business loans have already been processed through Paycheck Protection Programs. So we went out on Friday and, literally, it’s become so popular. It’s been worked with the banks. They get it to the small business. It’s all about employment. It’s all about jobs. We want you to keep your jobs. It gives small business funding to keep the workers on the payroll. And we’re sending direct cash payments to millions of Americans and rushing aid to the hardest-hit industries. We’re saving industries. We will be — you’ll be seeing it. And if we do more, we’re going to do more, and we’re going to try and get directly to people that are hit so hard. But we’re going to take care of our workers. We’re going to take care of our citizens. We’re going to take care of our small businesses. We’re going to take care of our large businesses: the airplane industry, the — the airline industry. A lot of great industries that we have that are in trouble because of what took place over the last short period of time. These are industries that were doing better — for the most part, doing better than ever. The airlines were doing great. Oil was doing great — oil and gas. And the energy industry was doing phenomenally well, and it got hit like nobody has ever been hit before. Just about like no industry has ever been hit before. There’s never been anything like this. But we see light at the end of the tunnel. Things are happening. Things are happening. We’re starting to see light at the end of the tunnel. And hopefully, in the not-too-distant future, we’ll be very proud of the job we all did. We can never be happy when so many people are dying, but we’re going to be very proud of the job we did to keep the death down to an absolute minimum — the least it could have happened with this terrible, terrible virus. In closing, I also want to note today is Palm Sunday and the beginning of Holy Week for Christians in America and all around the world. While we may be apart from one another, as you can see from our great churches, our great pastors and ministers are out there working very hard. But we may be apart — we can use this time to turn to reflection and prayer and our own personal relationship with God. I would ask that all Americans pray for the heroic doctors and nurses, for the truck drivers and grocery store workers, and for everyone fighting this battle. I had mentioned yesterday, where I see the nurses rushing into hospitals, and they’re putting on their outfits, and they’re putting on their masks and goggles, in some cases. They’re rushing into war. They’re rushing into war. And I see people from apartment houses screaming and shouting and singing their praises. It’s an incredible thing. They’re warriors — these doctors and nurses. They’re running into buildings, and they’re literally putting it on as the doors are opening. They’re putting all their stuff and running inside. And they’re running inside to tremendous danger. Tremendous danger. But, most of all, I’d like to ask for your prayers for the families who have lost loved ones. Ask God to comfort them in their hour of grief. It’s a great hour of grief for our nation, for the world. This morning — I was talking 151. For four days, I said 151. A hundred and fifty-one countries. This morning, it’s 182 countries. It jumped up a lot. So, as of this morning, it’s 182 countries are under attack from this monster. With the faith of our families and the spirit of our people, and the grace of our God, we will endure, we will overcome, we will prevail. We have learned so much. We will be stronger than ever. And I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank the incredible professionals on the task force also. We had a big meeting today. We — were calls all day long to so many different people. And I think our package to get everyone working when we’re ready is really turning out to be successful. We may have to make it larger because it’s been really successful. But all of that comes back to this country. We want to get them back. We want to get our people back to work. Everybody wants to be back. We want to open up our country as soon as possible. So, with that, I’m going to ask Dr. Birx to say a few words, and she’s got some charts to show you. And thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Admiral? Please. Hydroxy. Great job. Thank you very much, Admiral. Mike, please. Oh, good. Good. Thank you, Robert. Thank you. Mike? Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you. Go ahead. Yeah. They do get orders for a lot more than sometimes we think an area needs. Generally speaking, we like to either negotiate that down or give it to them as they want. So we’ve had a lot of orders that we think are high, but we generally like, if we have it — if we have, for instance, with the medicines and with other things, we like to give it to them. Every day, we’re building up and building it up very rapidly, and deploying it. But we do get orders from some of the states where we don’t think they need it. We try and get it for them what they want anyway. Okay? Go ahead. Yes. I didn’t speak to him, no. I did get a call from the ambassador. And, hey, it’s a big — it’s a big move, going to the hospital. That’s a big thing. He’s a great gentleman, so I — you know, I just hope he’s okay. Yes. Well, we’re talking about it, and we’re talking about doing something for them. But we’re really looking at the conclusion. We want to just — we don’t want to focus on that now. They’re incredible. There’s — they’re not saying, “We’re not doing it.” They go in with good equipment, with great equipment, and with stuff that’s not so good. And sometimes they catch it wearing the best stuff you can buy — brand new, the best stuff. This is a very tough enemy. But these are amazing people. No, we are talking about something, but we’re really thinking about, let’s get it finished first before we do that. Please. A tough — tough week. I don’t think they’re so different. I think we all know that we have to reach a certain point, and that point is going to be a horrific point in terms of death. But it’s also a point at which things are going to start changing. We’re getting very close to that level right now. And the next week and a half, two weeks are going to be — I think they’re going to be very difficult. At the same time, we understand what they represent and what that time represents, and hopefully we can get this over with because this is a very horrible thing for the world. Hey, look, we’re one country out of 182 now that have — 182 countries. I have a friend of mine — said he didn’t know we had so many countries in the world. A hundred and eighty-two countries are now affected by this. So we want to get it over with. Okay? Please. Yes. Well, we hope we can stay under those numbers. Those are numbers of death. And we hope we can stay under those numbers. That would be terrific. And as far under those numbers as possible. Now, if we did nothing, you know that number too. But the American people really stepped up; so did the professionals. They just really stepped up. So we’re hoping to stay under those numbers. And that means the minimum and the maximum, but we’re hoping to stay under the minimum number. You know what that number was. I would say the answer is “yes,” but I would also say that we’re not going to know really in terms of a final toll until we get out to the end. And we’re probably, possibly, not so far away. We’re getting closer. But it’s our goal to stay as far under that minimum number — the minimum number as possible. Okay? That’s what we want to do. Go ahead. Yeah. Because I want people to live and I’m seeing people dying. And I see people that are going to die without it. And you know the expression. When that’s happening, they should do it. What really do we have to lose? We also have — this medicine has been tested for many years for malaria and for lupus, so it’s been out there. So it’s a very strong, powerful medicine, but it doesn’t kill people. We have some very good results and some very good tests. You’ve seen the same test that I have. In France, they had a very good test; they’re continuing. But we don’t have time to go and say, “Gee, let’s take a couple of years and test it out. And let’s go and test with the test tubes and the laboratories.” We don’t have time. I’d love to do that. But we have people dying today. As we speak, there are people dying. If it works, that would be great. If it doesn’t work — we know, for many years, malaria, it — it’s incredible what it’s done for malaria; it’s incredible what it’s done for lupus. But it doesn’t kill people. That’s one of the things with a vaccine. When we have a vaccine, we have to do tests because when you inject that vaccine, when they take whatever ever it is they have to take, we have to make sure it doesn’t have a horrible impact, destroy somebody. Good? So we have to test it for a long period of time. This one, not so much because it’s been out there. Now, I’m not acting as a doctor. I’m saying, “Do what you want, but there are some good signs.” You’ve read the signs, I’ve read the signs. With the other one, there’s some very good signs also. Different — going together works very well. But there may be an indication that if you have a problem with your heart, you shouldn’t take what we call the Z-Pak. You shouldn’t take it, and that’s okay. But I would love to go to a laboratory and spend a couple of years testing something. We don’t have time. We don’t have two hours, because there are people dying right now. If it does help, great. If it doesn’t help, we gave it a shot. We gave it a shot. That’s the way I feel. You know, we passed something — yeah, I would — I would be very serious about taking it. We passed something that I’m very proud of. It’s called Right to Try. For 45, 50 years, they’ve been trying. It makes so much sense. We have the greatest doctors and labs and lab technicians, the greatest medicines, the greatest minds in the world. Everybody admits it. And when we’re close to having something, or when we have something that tests incredibly well, you couldn’t use it for years because they would take years and years to test. So with the help of also Democrats — I got it bipartisan, but they’ve been trying to get this passed for — for decades. You know that. It’s called Right to Try. So a person would be diagnosed terminally ill from something. And in the old days, meaning before a year ago, they would say, “Do you think I could try this — this pill, this whatever, this medicine that’s testing so well?” “No, you can’t do that. You can’t do that under no circumstances.” They’d leave for Asia, they’d leave for Europe, they’d leave for — if they had money. If they had no money, they’d go home and die with no hope. We got a thing called Right to Try. If somebody is very ill, terminally ill, they’re going to die. They — and it was very complex. It wasn’t as easy as it sounds because there were huge liability problems. The drug companies didn’t want to do it because they didn’t want it on test results — because these are very sick people, so they didn’t want to bring down their test results. The insurance companies had tremendous problems. I got everybody in the room, I said, “Look, we’ll sign a waiver.” The person taking it will say, “We’re not going to sue.” The family is not going to sue the drug company, not going to sue the insurance company, not going to sue the state, the city, or the federal government. Okay? It’s called “exculpation.” And we got it done. It’s a very simple agreement. I don’t know why nobody ever thought of it, but they never thought of it. I did. And we got it done. Now we have Right to Try, which is actually, in my opinion, much more difficult than what we’re talking about here. But if there’s a medicine or something, a possible cure, or something that’s looking good and somebody has something that’s going — they’re going to die or they’re very sick, they take it. And, you know, we’ve had some unbelievable results. Unbelievable results. And it also gives the people hope. Yes, please. That’s true. And many of them do. Sure. Sure. They should be finished in about a year. I’m not. I’m not. I’m just saying — — very simply. I’m not at all. I’m not. Look, you know what I’m trying to do? I’m trying to save lives. I want them to try it. And it may work, and it may not work. But if it doesn’t work, it’s nothing lost by doing it. Nothing. Because we know — long term, what I want, I want to save lives. And I don’t want it to be in a lab for the next year and a half as people are dying all over the place. That’s right. All I’m doing is saying — well, I’ll tell you what I accomplish. We bought massive amounts of it — 29 million doses of it. We have it coming from all of the labs. We’re actually now doing it here, because in case it does work, we want to have it. And we’ve given it to drugstores, we’re — we’re sending it all over. FEMA is doing it. FEMA is doing it. We’re doing it through different channels, many different channels, including the companies that make it. It’s a very special thing. Now, it may not work, in which case, hey, it didn’t work. And it may work, in which case, it’s going to save a lot of lives. Now, a lot of people say, if the people walking in prior to getting it, if they take it, it has a profound effect. Well, maybe it does and maybe it doesn’t. I don’t want to wait a year and a half to find out. And only CNN would ask that question. Fake news. Go ahead. A bunch of fakers. I also think that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx are very impressed with the American people. And I’m not going to put words in anybody’s mouth — I would never do that — but I am, and I will say that they are doing maybe a better job than we all thought even possible. When you look at streets in New York where there’s nobody in the street, no cars, no nothing — I see it. You know, I’ve seen those streets for a long time and they’re packed all the time. And now you see there’s nobody. You look at other places; you look at what’s going on in California where they’re doing a fantastic job. They really are. The governor is doing great. I’m proud of them. I’m proud of a lot of people — proud of a lot of people on the other side. You know, of a lot of people. Really — I’m really delighted to work with people that, frankly, on other issues, I didn’t get along so well with. We disagree on this or that; we don’t have to go into that now. But we’re getting along with a lot of people. And they’re happy with us. We’re happy with them. But I really believe that the American people are doing a better job than anybody would have thought even possible, and that’s one of the reasons we can even be talking about the kind of number that we hopefully will be talking about, which is at the minimum level instead of the maximum or beyond. It’s not even the maximum — it’s much beyond a maximum level, which would be horrific. Yes, please. Please. Well, it was voluntary, as I saw it yesterday. And certainly, if they’d want to, I would — I would encourage it. I would have absolutely no problem with that if they wanted. We had a long meeting today. There’s good separation. But the task force meets and I would certainly have absolutely no problem if they wanted to. I think, frankly, it’s something, at least for a period of time, where it might be advisable. And you know, it’s advisory. And we’ll see what happens. Yes, please. Not here. No, not here. No, no, no — Well, no, you’ve seen in Spain and you’ve seen in different — they’re not sending faulty things to us. No, we test it. We look at it. We check it out. Please. And we’re also sending it to other — from other locations. And when it comes to the ventilators, which are very complex, we are now building — we have now, under construction, literally thousands of ventilators. So — but so far, I think our projections on ventilators have been right. They’ve been correct. Did you have something? For who? Well, it’s turning out that we need less hospital beds. That’s what you’re talking about. And that’s what we — well, we may have models, but we’ve been sort of saying that. In New York, we were saying we think you’re going to need less. Now, let’s hope that continues. But right now — I heard Governor Cuomo this morning, and he was saying less hospital beds, also less death. That was a very big thing. First time — less death today than yesterday, right? That’s a big thing. But also less hospital beds. That means less patients because basically it’s less patients. And we were saying that. And it also means less ventilators. So there’s a lot of — a lot of very positive things happening. Okay. Please. Yes. We have — we have this tiny platform and I’d love it to be wider. You’re staying away from each other. Mike, you were tested? Okay. Like recently. So was I, a couple of days ago. We are. We are. We are. You know, here we are on this platform. And — but I get next to him, I don’t breathe. I’m only kidding. We are — we are sometimes forced into positions that I’d rather — I’d rather be away, but it’s — you know, you’re all looking for questions. Mike is a very big part of this; I am. It’s very difficult maintaining like, this distance on this little area. Well, if the oil price stays the way it is because of people that really want to see it go up — when I say get — we want to save a great industry. We built a great industry in this country. If they don’t get along, I would do that. Yeah, I would do tariffs, very substantial tariffs. Because we’re independent now; we have our own oil. And if I did the tariffs, we essentially would be saying, “We don’t want foreign oil. We don’t want any foreign oil. We’re just going to use our oil.” And that would help to save an industry. And, you know, it’s become a tremendous job producer. And it’s great to be independent. We’re independent. Our energy is now independent. We produce more oil than — oil and gas than anybody else, than any other country. And that all took place over the very recent time. Now, in the meantime, I’m seeing 91 dollars — 91 cents a gallon out on the road. Okay? A lot of people are happy. I see very inexpensive jet fuel. We’re trying to save the airline industry. But I want to save our great energy industry and that’s what we’re doing. Yeah. So I would — I would absolutely do that. And what we’ll do — the price will still be very low — but what we’ll do is we’ll save — and, very importantly, we’ll save tens of thousands of jobs. One of the other things we’re doing is having oil shipped to our strategic oil reserves. Okay? And, you know, we’re buying it for the right price and we’re shipping it. In some cases, we’re storing it for nothing. They’re there. We’re filling up our reserves with this very inexpensive oil. Nobody thought they’d ever see a price — this is like from the 1950s, where they had big dollars, okay? So, no, I would use tariffs if I had to. I don’t think I’m going to have to because Russia doesn’t benefit by having this and Saudi Arabia doesn’t benefit by having it. They — you know, oil and gas are their major sources of income. So it’s obviously very bad for them. But we have to — we have an industry that’s a very important industry and it’s really formed beautifully. It was the virus that killed it because what happened is it’s down 40 percent from the day this happened — 40 percent. Otherwise, it would be doing phenomenally well. So that’s it. Yeah. No, but I like the concept of it. I think it’s good. We’re talking about a different way of doing it, but I like the concept. I like the concept of infrastructure. Our country has to be rebuilt. They spent all this money in the Middle East — $8 trillion. We’re up to now $8 trillion in the Middle East. We got to rebuild our country. Okay? We have to rebuild our roads, and our schools, our bridges. We have to rebuild our country. So, I like an infrastructure bill. I also like money going directly to people. It’s not their fault that this happened. And I do think this — especially the faster we can get it open, our country — can you believe we’re talking about our country, getting our country open? The faster we get it open, the bigger the boom, the bigger the rocket ship going up. I think it has a chance to go really quickly, relatively quickly. I’d like to see very quickly, but we’ll see. But part of the stimulus and part of what we’re doing, that will help it. And the nice part is we’re paying practically zero interest rates. You know we’re paying very little. It’s one of the reasons I like the infrastructure bill, because we’re borrowing — we have a strong dollar. And the advantage to a strong dollar is everybody wants to invest in this country. They all want to buy our dollar. I think so. Yeah, from what I’m hearing that’s — Yeah, a couple of weeks. That’s what I’m hearing. Yeah. Please. Yeah, we — we discussed it with the staff. We discussed it with FDA. Well, the FDA approved it. So, you know — which is another point. I mean it’s been approved by FDA, which is very important. If it wasn’t approved by FDA, then I couldn’t do this. But FDA has approved it, the hydroxy. Well, we’ll see if it works. No, it’s not going to — it’s not going to hurt people. It can help them, but it’s not going to hurt them. That’s the beauty of it, you see. It can help them, but it’s not going to hurt them. What do you have to lose? Okay, a question? Yeah, in the back, please. Right. Well, we’re going to have to — we’ll answer that question later. All I can say is that right now things are looking now things are looking really good and opening up with a bang will be a great thing. And there’s nobody going to be happier than me. Please, go ahead. Yeah. Thirty-two thousand will be what? In addition to the ones that we’ve already sent? Don’t forget, we have almost 10,000 — a little more 9,000 right now. And those are ready to rock should we need them. And we had to keep it. You understand that: flexibility. So that if we need them in New York — which we might not — if we need them. But they’re ready to move. We have — we’re all ready. Military — it’s a military operation. We are ready to move. They’ll be moved immediately into whatever section of the country we need. Would you like to answer that by the way? Yes. No, but they’re not going to be long. They’ve started. GM, Ford, we have many — we have 11 companies — approximately 11 companies — building them. And we’re going to have a stockpile for future — hopefully, we never have to use them. They should have — the hospitals, the states should have bought a stockpile. They didn’t do that. So we’ve made up for it. But if we have extras — other countries need them. I mean, you see UK needs them badly, France needs a badly, Italy needs them badly. They need them. So, it’s complicated. It’s a big piece of equipment. It’s expensive. And we’ll be able to help other countries after we take care of our needs. Yes, please. Go ahead. I actually choose you, but that’s okay. I’ll let him go. That’s all right. Go ahead. No, I know. And because they don’t do construction techniques that work and that are better. I mean, I see a highway and that’s — which is what I do. I do construction — what I did. I see highway that’s good but it’s got a bad top, and it’s got a big base — concrete base underneath. And I’ll see them come in — I don’t want to say where, but I could tell you; I could give you plenty of examples — and they rip the hell out of it. They take out the base. They take out everything. Now they pour a new base that isn’t as good, isn’t as deep, isn’t as thick. The concrete base was fantastic — the footing. It takes forever. Wait a minute. It takes forever. And instead of scraping out the asphalt, or whatever may be the top — scraping it off and putting the new asphalt down, putting the new median in. They could have done it. And then they open the highway and it starts to crack. The reason is because it hasn’t been set. And they spend 10, 15, 20 times more money than they have to. I never believe, when I watch these people doing highways and doing roadways and doing work, how they take the most expensive solution. And the bottom line: The job itself is far worse. Yeah. Well, yeah, but hopefully they’re not going to be staying at home for long. Hopefully, this will be out and we’re not going to have that kind of time. If we have that kind of time, we made a big mistake. Please, go ahead. Who has that information? Go ahead, Mike. Tuesday they go out. Some have gone out, by the way, but the big bulk of them go out on Tuesday. Yeah, please. No. No, there’s not a change, but we’re supposed to be the backup. But like in Illinois, the governor couldn’t do his job so we had to help him. We’re sending 600 ventilators. We’re building a hospital in McCormick Place. We’re doing it. So we have some people that were not able to do. We have other people that needed a little help. We had — in New York, we had to give a lot of help, but we’ve worked very well with Governor Cuomo and with Mayor de Blasio. But, no, we are meant to be the backup, but we’ve taken on a much bigger role than that, and that’s okay. I have no objection to it. Now, in some cases, it’s worked so well, where they’re actually now seeing — they think they’re over — over the big problem. And they’re actually calling us and they’re saying, “You can take your equipment back now.” But we’re really deployed as a backup, but I feel we’re much more than that. They’ve done a much better job. I will say this: I don’t think that the people that have represented this country, the federal government — whether it’s the Admiral and the generals and all of the people that we call to the fore — I just — they’re heroes for what they’ve done. What they’ve been able to do in a short period of time — they took a system that was broken, just like we did the military. Our military was broken. Our military was depleted and it was broken, and we’ve rebuilt our military. We’ve rebuilt this whole system too. And I — in a way, Kelly, I appreciate your question because, you know, you’re hearing all of the things that we’re — the millions of masks, the hundreds of thousands of gowns. And they’re surgical — you know, they’re protective gowns at the highest level. We’re getting it to the various states. And most of the governors are very happy. Now, a lot of times, you know, it’s politics. Maybe I do the same thing, I don’t know. But they’ll try and act not so happy. I will tell you, when I speak to them or when the Vice President speaks to them, they’re singing the praises of all of these people. So I always take umbrage when — when somebody says something about what we’ve done. Now, to do this — to do this should have taken — To do what we’ve been able to do and to build it to a level, it should have taken a year. It should’ve taken two years. They did it in a matter of weeks. And we’re helping states. No, it’s them. As an example, New York had the right to buy 16,000 ventilators. They could have bought them. They didn’t. I understand why they didn’t. It was a very expensive purchase. You know, a very expensive — and that’s a lot: 16,000. And they chose to do something else with their money. I understand that. The problem is when something like this comes along, which you don’t expect. Look, 1917 — that’s a long time ago — perhaps 100 million people died. That’s a long time ago. So people don’t think it’s going to happen. I would have, frankly — I mean, did anybody in this room think a thing like this could happen? But it happened. And we built up a force. This is a military operation, as it turned out — it really is — with FEMA, with the Army Corps of Engineers. I mean, Army Corps of — and you were very gracious on that point. The Army Corps of Engineers is building 2,500 units of beds and everything else now. And then Governor Cuomo called and he wanted it to go COVID, meaning, for the problem. And we said, “Well, it wasn’t supposed to be that way, but we want to get it done.” And we’ve moved military personnel, so now military personnel are operating it. And I’ll tell you what’s — what’s good. It hasn’t been very full. That’s a good thing, not a bad thing. It hasn’t been. Now, maybe over the next week, something will happen, but it hasn’t been. But we have — because it’s better than the other alternative where we run out. But they built actually 2,900 beds. And we have — also, we built four medical centers in New York. We’ve built four hospitals, four medical centers, and a lot more than that. It’s such an honor to have done it. But the people that did it are amazing and they have to be appreciated by the states, not me. They don’t have appreciate me at all. I don’t care about me. They have to appreciate the generals, the admirals, the doctors, the nurses. I mean, we’re bringing now 3,000 people in that are medical professionals that are coming from all over the country to help New York City, help New York State, and help many other places. I just think it’s incredible what they’ve done, and I don’t think that they’ve been appreciated. Me, you can forget about. Me, you can forget — Yeah. Yeah, I rea- — I actually mean it. They have to be appreciated. Go in the back, please. I do. I do. I see light at the end of the tunnel. If I didn’t, I would not be — I would not be very thrilled with what we’ve done. No, I see light at the end of the tunnel. I think indications are some of the numbers coming out today. I think, you know, we had a very good meeting today. We’re seeing things that we don’t even report because we think it’s too early to report. No, I think, you know, we’re seeing things happen that are very good. And we also know — all of us, including the medical professionals — that we have to open our country up. We have to get go- — we have to open our country up. No country was designed for this, where you close it. We’re in the midst of the greatest economic boom in history for any country. Our country had the greatest economic boom in history. We had the most people working that we’ve ever had, almost 160 million people. And then from 160 million, they want nobody to leave the house. You know, you could use the term “cold turkey.” Right? That’s called “cold turkey.” Countries are not designed — this country is not designed for that. We have to get our country back. And I think it’s going to come back, and I hope it’s going to come back very quickly. Yeah, please. Go ahead. That’s good. No, she feels that way. She feels that — I — I would wear one. I mean, I just — generally, I’m not in a — like, I should — would you like me to wear one right now and answer your question? That would be a little awkward, I guess. But, no, I mean — again, I would wear one if it was — if I thought it was important. She — she thinks — she likes the idea of wearing it, yeah. She does. A lot of people do. Again, it’s a recommendation, and I understand that recommendation and I’m okay with it. Wouldn’t be surprised. Sure. What would you like to know? Sure. Doctor? And, by the way, he — he’d like to see the company [sic] open too. I mean, you know — He’s called “an American who loves our country.” Yeah. And we’ve made great progress with the antibody testing. Fantastic progress. Do you know how many times you’ve answered that question? Maybe 15. Fifteen times. You don’t have to ask the question. He’s answered that question 15 times. Good. That’s a very — a very good answer. All right, I think that really could be it. That was a very — I love that answer, especially on the facemask. I thought it was very good. Go ahead. Oh, stop it. Who are you with? By the way, who are you with? Who you with? That’s another beautiful — that’s another beautiful — Are you ready? Are you ready? Let me just answer your question because I know exactly — you know, the same question you ask all the time. Ready? They have done an unbelievable job in delivering — For the Associated Press, which is, you know, not so great, not like it used to be. The people that you’re looking at — FEMA, the military — what they’ve done is a miracle. What they’ve done is a miracle in getting all of this stuff. What they’ve done for states is incredible. And you should be thanking them for what they’ve done, not always asking wise-guy questions. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. It’s a busy time. Very busy time. And let me begin by again expressing our support, solidarity, and love for the people of our great country. We’re fighting for you and we’re enduring all of this together. And we will soon prevail together. We’re making a lot of progress. We appreciate all of the great assistance from the governors and people within the states. The relationships have been, really, very good. I spoke with Governor Cuomo. We’re working very hard to get additional things to New York as quickly as possible. We — as you know, we took care of the hospital, including personnel — the 2,500 beds that we build just recently at Javits, including personnel. And we opened it up to COVID, and that’s something that we also did in Louisiana, and we’re doing it in Dallas. So we have a lot of not only hospitals being built, but now we’re manning the hospitals because states are, in many cases, unable to get additional people to work. It’s — it’s just an incredible situation. There’s never been anything like this. One of the most important issues in battling this pandemic is coordinating the delivery of the crucial supplies throughout the nation based upon the most accurate information available. And we’ve got the best healthcare and disaster experts anywhere in the world, and everybody will tell you that, and we’re dealing with big parts of the world on helping them also through this horrible situation where 151 — still, 151 nations are going through it. We’re working to ensure that the supplies are delivered where and when they’re needed, and in some cases, we’re telling governors we can’t go there because we don’t think you need it and we think someplace else needs it. And pretty much, so far, we’ve been right about that. And we’ll continue to do it. As it really gets — this will be probably the toughest week between this week and next week. And there’ll be a lot of death, unfortunately, but a lot less death than if this wasn’t done. But there will be death. We’re looking for an obvious focus in the hardest-hit regions. Some of them are obvious and some aren’t so obvious. They spring up. They come and they — they hit you like you got hit by a club, an area that wasn’t at all bothered. You look at what’s going on in New Jersey — the governor is doing an excellent job, by the way — but how that sprang up. Every decision that we’re making is made to save lives. It’s really our sole consideration. We want to save lives. We want as few lives lost as possible. It’s therefore critical that certain media outlets stop spreading false rumors and creating fear and even panic with the public. It’s just incredible. I could name them, but it’s the same ones. Always the same ones. I guess they’re looking for ratings. I don’t know what they’re looking for. So bad for our country and so bad — the people understand it. You look at the levels and approval ratings, and they’re the lowest they’ve ever been for media. It’s so bad for — for our country. So bad for the world. You ought to put it together for a little while, get this over with, and then go back to your fake news. During a national emergency, it’s just essential that the federal decision makers cut through the fog of confusion in order to follow the facts and the science. Many hospital administrators that we’ve been in touch with, even in the really hotspots — you know what they are — are communicating directly with us that their level of supplies are meeting essential needs. And at the current time, they’re really thrilled to be where they are. Whenever local shortages are reported, we’re asking states to immediately meet the demand. And we’re stockpiling large amounts in different areas — in different areas. And we’re going to be discussing that in a little while. But we want distributions to be made on a fair basis. We have to take care of a large country, not just certain areas of the country. But no matter where we’re — we’ve been there and we’ve been there very strongly. I want to thank FEMA. I want to thank the Army Corps of Engineers. I want to thank our military for what they’re doing. And we’re going to be adding a tremendous amount of military to help supplement the states — thousands of soldiers, thousands of medical workers, professionals, nurses, doctors. And it’ll be a large number. It’ll be — we’ll be telling them over the next very short period where they’re going. And they’re going into war. They’re going into a battle that they’ve never really trained for. Nobody has trained for this; nobody has seen this, I would say, since 1917, which was the greatest of them all. The greatest of this type of battle. Probably the greatest of them all. Right? 1917. Up to 100 million people were killed. In addition, we’re working directly with hospitals and existing suppliers and distributors to ensure that those with the greatest need are prioritized. And that need changes. One day it’s one state or one locale, one city. And then all of a sudden, they’re starting to do well. We had some very good reports coming out of the State of Washington, coming out of various parts of California — so, areas that we were getting ready to really hit hard. We can now go to other areas. It looks like New York is going to be hit very hard. And Louisiana is just amazing the way it just sprang up. And everyone is doing a good job but they’re going to be hit hard. Areas in the country that are not experiencing large-scale infections are requesting supplies beyond what their present circumstances require. And we talk to them and we tell them and we explain it, and for the most part they’re good with it. We think we’re right. It’s very understandable that officials would seek to get the most they can get for their communities, but the fears of the shortages have led to inflated requests. We have some states and areas where they’re just asking for far more. I mean, look, we had one state asking for 40,000 ventilators. Forty thousand. Think of it: 40,000. It’s not possible. They won’t need that many, and now they’re admitting they don’t need that many. But we’re getting as many as we can to them. Again, nobody has ever seen anything like this in terms of ventilators, in terms of protective equipment and uniforms and outfits. But it makes it more difficult for distributors to prioritize the real need, and it could intentionally and, you know — look, they — everybody has proper intentions but they want to make sure they’re 100 percent. And sometimes, when they know they don’t need it, they want it anyway. It gives them that extra feeling of satisfaction, but we just can’t do that. It’s not even possible to think about it. And that’s why — and we’re a backup. Remember, we’re a backup. We’re the greatest backup that ever existed for the states, especially when we start getting into the hospital building business and getting into the medical center building business, where you see we built many hospitals — numerous hospitals in some states — and medical centers. That’s why my administration has been requesting actual usage numbers directly from the states and hospitals to meet their needs, because we want to be ready when — when the brunt of it comes, which is coming quickly; you see it. You see it as sure as you can see it. And when the brunt of it comes, we want to be ready to hit the area that needs it. We don’t want to have spent everything in one area, and they don’t need it there to anywhere near the extent. So let me be extremely clear about one point: We will move heaven and earth to safeguard our great American citizens. We will continue to use every power, every authority, every single resource we’ve got to keep our people healthy, safe, secure, and to get this thing over with. We want to finish this war. We have to get back to work. We have to get — we have to open our country again. We have to open our country again. We don’t want to be doing this for months and months and months. We’re going to open our country again. This country wasn’t meant for this. Few were. Few were. But we have to open our country again. I just spoke with the commissioners, leaders of, I would say, virtually all of the sports leagues: Rob Manfred, Commissioner of Baseball, Major League Baseball; Roger Goodell Commissioner of the National Football League; Adam Silver Commissioner of the National Basketball Association; Gary Bettman, Commissioner of the National Hockey League; Jay Monahan, Commissioner of the PGA Tour; Cathy Engelbert, Commissioner of the Women’s National Basketball Association; Dana White, the Ultimate Fighting Championship; Vince McMahon President of the WWE; Don Garber, Commissioner of Major League Soccer; Steve Phelps, President of NASCAR; Michael Whan, Commissioner of the LPGA; Roger Penske, Founder and Chairman Penske Corp.; and Drew Fleming, President of the Breeders’ Cup. And there were a couple of others on, and these are all the great leaders of sport. And they want to get back. They got to get back. They can’t do this. Their sports weren’t designed for it. The whole concept of our nation wasn’t designed for it. We’re going to have to get back. We want to get back soon — very soon. For example — and I have to say, we’re using the Defense Production Act very powerfully. In some cas- — times directly; in many cases, indirectly. Just the threat of it is usually enough. But FEMA and HHS have ordered 180 million — think of that — 180 million. Who ever heard of 180 million N95 masks? And we’re working now with 3M to see whether or not that all works out, but we want them to help our country. And I think it’s going to be okay. We’re going to soon let you know. But we need the masks. We don’t want other people getting it, and that’s why we’re — that’s why we’re instituting a lot of Defense Production Act, you could call it, retaliations because that’s what it is; it’s a retaliation. If people don’t — if people don’t give us what we need for our people, we’re going to be very tough, and we’ve been very tough. Usually we don’t have to use it, but we’ve used it plenty. It’s turning out more and more, unfortunately. And it works very well. Our Supply Chain Logistics Task Force, led by Admiral John Polowczyk, who’s doing a fantastic job, will ensure they’re distributed to the healthcare and critical infrastructure workers in the areas with the most pressing requirements. That’s the 60 million masks that we’re talking about and the hundred and — 180 million N95 masks. A hundred and eighty million. Who ever heard of 180 million masks? And this is a incredible thing. A lot of times — and we have to stop playing this game — if a governor wants 200 ventilators, and I say, “No, we’re going to send you 1,000. We think you need more than 200,” and then the media meets with the governor and they say, “Oh, you got more. Well, it’s not enough. The President should have sent more.” So he’s asking for 200. We give him 1,000. They say, “How’s the President doing?” “He should have given more.” Because that’s politics. That’s politics. And that’s unfortunate, because we can’t play that game. And, you know, that’s one party doing it, and the other party is happy. But they’re all really happy because they should have been doing this work themselves for a long period of time. Many of their cupboards were bare. With respect to the ventilators, FEMA and HHS continue to monitor the data on an hourly basis where provided by the states. In order to most effectively target the distribution of supplies, we’ve been asking states to provide us with daily updates on the number of ventilators and their utilization rates, because some states have more ventilators than they need. They don’t even like to admit it. They’ll admit it when everything is over, but that’s — it doesn’t help us very much. This data is vitally necessary so that we can ensure ventilators are getting to the right place at the right time. FEMA, HHS, DOD are developing resources within the next 24 hours. They will have a whole different set of criteria. Every day, it’s different criteria. Every day, this horrible, invisible enemy changes a course. It changes course. If you were fighting the normal fight, you’d know what’s happening. Here is: They hit one, they hit another, they hit another state. They hit areas that you didn’t expect. But we’re watching it and we’re capturing it. Our goal is to stay several days ahead of the needs in each state, but we can only do that if the cities and states utilize real-time local knowledge to provide timely and precise data about actual usage. So we have to be able to do that. And if a state has ventilators, as an example, that they know they’re not going to need, they should give them over and we should move them with the other ones. We have now 10,000 in our pipeline, and stockpiled 10,000 — close. And we’re moving some into New York, so we’re going to need some additional. We’re moving some into New York City and state, separately. And we’re bringing them to the point where they’ll need them. I can also report that, at my direction, 1,000 military personnel are deploying to New York City to assist where they’re needed the most. That’s the hottest of all the hotspots. New Jersey is right there. It’s right next to it. And I don’t know if that’s overflow, but New Jersey is — it’s a great state and it’s a very — it’s a crowded state also, where you have people on top of people. It’s always tough. But we’re bringing some of the ventilators. We got some for New Jersey just yesterday, and we’re going to bring them some more, including doctors. We’re getting doctors, nurses, respiratory specialists, and other support workers. These are from the military. We’re taking people now out of our military. We’ve been doing it, but now we’re doing it on a larger basis. And I want to thank Secretary of Defense Esper, who will detail some of what we’re doing, tomorrow and Monday. As the situation in Washington State continues to stabilize, we’re returning a 300-bed federal medical station to a different location — so where we need it. And we appreciate that. They won’t be needing it, and we appreciate them letting us know. We’re going to move it to a different location. It was already built. Many governors initially made large requests for federal support for their states in anticipation of a greater number of cases, but the residents of Washington State have done a really good job of following the federal distancing guidelines. They really have. I’m also pleased to report that Oregon will be spending and sending — they’re spending a lot of money because they really did stockpile well, and they’re also sending 140 ventilators directly to New York, which we appreciate. And I want to thank the Vice President for the great work he’s doing every day, dealing with our nation’s governors. Mike Pence has been working day and night on this, and we want to get it over. He’s got to get a little more sleep than he’s getting. He hasn’t been getting very much, I will tell you that. And we’re all in this together, and it’s a beautiful thing to see how people are joining forces to help one another. They really are. In addition to our courageous doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers, I also want to thank the incredible food supply workers who are feeding our nation. I spoke just a little while ago to Senator Boozman. You know Senator Boozman; we all do. He’s a great senator. He’s a great person. We spoke just this morning, and we discussed how important it is to keep our farmers and ranchers, processors, and distributors in our nation’s prayers. And I want to thank the senator for the incredible job he’s been doing. And a lot of the senators and congressmen and everyone — everybody is working very hard. My administration is working very aggressively to pioneer new medical countermeasures to treat and prevent infection. Working on a lot of things. We must utilize our nation’s scientific brilliance to vanquish the virus. We have to vanquish the virus as quickly as we can, because we have a lot of things happening in this country, and we have a great future, but we have to get back to work. This week, the FDA established the Coronavirus Treatment Accelerator Program, which is expediting the development of new anti- — antiviral and other therapies, and they’re doing it on a very rapid basis. And I think we’re having some very good results. We’ll tell you about that. HHS continues to speed the development of therapies derived from human blood that have the potential to lessen the severity or shorten the length of the illness. And as you know, last Saturday, the FDA also gave emergency authorization for hydroxychloroquine. And the hydroxychloroquine is a — I hope it’s going to be a very important answer. We’re having some very good things happening with it, and we’re going to be distributing it through the Strategic National Stockpile. It’s going into the Strategic National Stockpile to treat certain patients. And we have millions and millions of doses of it; 29 million to be exact. In addition to that, we’re making it and we’re also getting it from various other locations and countries. In one case, I called Prime Minister Modi of India this morning. They make large amounts of hydroxychloroquine — very large amounts, frankly. And I said — they had a hold, because, you know, they have 1.5. billion people, and they think a lot of it. And I said I’d appreciate it if they would release the amounts that we ordered. And they are giving it serious consideration. But they do make — India makes a lot of it. But we have already 29 million. If you look — I mean, that’s a big number. Twenty-nine million doses. And we’ve got millions of doses that are being made here and many millions of doses that are made elsewhere that are being shipped here, and it will be arriving. We’re just hearing really positive stories, and we’re continuing to collect the data. But I’ll just speak for myself: It’s been out for a long time. It’s a malaria drug. It’s also a drug for lupus. And there’s a — there’s a study out that people with lupus aren’t catching this horrible virus. They’re not — they’re not affected so much by it. Now, maybe that’s correct; maybe it’s false. You’re going to have to check it out. But there’s a lot of very positive things happening with that. That’s a game changer if that’s the case. Obviously, we continue to work on the vaccines, but the vaccines have to be down the road by probably 14, 15, 16 months. We’re doing great on the vaccines. I think Johnson & Johnson is leading — seems to be leading in terms of the studies, but we’ll see what happens. But I feel good about that, but that’s down the road. But tremendous promise with — with what’s just been mentioned. In addition to that, Gilead Sciences has initiated a phase three that’s down the line, meaning clinical studies of the drug remdesivir. Now, it’s approximately 1,000 patients, which is a pretty — pretty good study. Other drugs are also being studied in patients. And this week, Oracle, a great company, donated a new web portal — Larry Ellison, amazing guy — and platform to the government to gather real-time data on how patients are responding to the various new treatments. And they have a very sophisticated site, we’ll be learning a lot from Oracle. And thank you to them. We’re also spending economic dollars like you wouldn’t believe, and speeding economic relief to American workers, families, and businesses. Yesterday, the Small Business Administration launched the Paycheck Protection Program to help employees keep paying their workers. In 24 hours, the Small Business Administration, and over 1,200 lending partners, processed over 28,000 loans — it’s, so far, ahead of schedule — and billions and billions of dollars. It’s worked out incredibly well, and I want to thank Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, and a lot of the big banks that have been involved, and a lot of the community banks. Community banks have really jumped on it. And it’s, so far, going way ahead of schedule. The SBA also clarified that faith-based organizations, including houses of worship, are eligible for the Paycheck Protection Program — that’s great — as well as the Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program that you’re familiar with, on the same terms as every other applicant. If we run out of funding for the employee retention program, I will immediately ask Congress for more money. This is money that’s really going directly to the people that need it — the small businesses that need it and the workers that need it. Finally, I can — because when we open, we want to open strong, with businesses that are going. Remember, we had the greatest economy in the world, and then one day, we were told we got to shut it down, stop it, tell everyone to stay home, because of this horrible virus. And we did that, and we did the right thing. But now we have to open. We have to open our country. Finally, I can report that as of today, the State Department has successfully coordinated the safe return of more than 40,000 Americans stuck abroad on over 400 flights from 75 countries. Many of those countries were terrific in helping us, and I appreciate that very much. Some of them, I had to call the leaders of the country, most of whom I know. And once I did, they snapped, like you wouldn’t believe. They really helped us great. So I appreciate that. So we brought back 40,000 Americans who were literally stuck in some countries, with no chance of getting out, and we got them back. Four hundred flights, seventy-five countries. Think of that. And those countries, in almost every instance, had a big problem with the virus. I want to thank the American people, most of all, for the selfless sacrifices that they’re making for our nation. I know it’s not pleasant, although some people have said they’ve gotten to know their family better, and they love their family more than ever, and that’s a beautiful thing. They’ve actually gotten to know them. They’re in the same house with their family for a long time. I guess it can also work the other way, perhaps, but we don’t want to talk about that. And I want to encourage everyone to keep following our guidelines on slowing the spread. Sustaining this war effort is — and that’s what it is; this is a war effort — is the patriotic duty of every citizen. While we may be more physically distant for a time, we’re closer together in the heart and in the spirit. And through this, great national unity is happening. We’re having a great unity developing that a lot of people didn’t think would be possible to develop like this. And we will conquer the disease and restore our nation to its full and glorious might. We’re doing really well, and I’m very proud of everybody out there. We’re very proud of you. It’s something that nobody could have ever projected. It’s been over 100 years that a thing like this has happened. And the problem with this one is the contagion. It’s so contagious. Nobody has ever seen anything like that where it’s so contagious. You can be feet away and just talking to somebody and catch it. You can catch it. You know how long it can live on surfaces. So things that nobody even thought of, the level of contagion. So, we’re getting there. We’re going to make sure that it’s over soon. And just keep going. It’s not going to be long. And thank you very much. And with that, I’d like to ask Dr. Hahn to speak. And he’s been doing yeoman’s work at the FDA. Thank you very much. Doctor, thank you. Tony, please. Thank you. Okay, please. I don’t think so. Look, there are some states that are — you have great distance, natural distance. Big land, few people. And they’re in very good shape. And if there is a case, they can quarantine that person, or that person will be separated, will be brought to a hospital, a secure area. So you do have different cases as opposed to a New York or Los Angeles. Los Angeles is doing incredibly well, by the way. But areas we have lots of people tight together. It’s a big difference. So, no, it’s — they’re different — there are many different cases. Please. No, not mass. Many of the places are really in great shape. They really have done a fantastic job. And we may add to the thousand. But New York will be getting about 1,000 military people — nurses, doctors, lots of other people — because that’s what they need. Yeah. And that’s — medical. No, no, medical military. Medical military. Please. Thinking about it. Thinking about it. Getting a group of people. And we have to open our country. You know, I had an expression: “The cure can’t be worse than the problem itself.” Right? I started by saying that and I continue to say it: The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. We’ve got to get our country open. Absolutely, I want — I want fans back in the arenas. I think it’s — I think it’s — no. Whenever we’re ready. I mean, as soon as we can, obviously. And the fans want to be back too. You know, they want to see basketball and baseball and football and hockey. They want to see their sports. They want to go out onto the golf courses and breathe nice, clean, beautiful fresh air. No, the — I can’t tell you — I can’t tell you a date, but I think it’s going to be sooner rather than later. But — and, you know, we’re not going to have to have separation for the rest of our times on the planet. We need it for this period of time. But eventually people are going to be able to occupy those seats and arenas, next to each other, like we have for all of my life and all of your life. They want to sit next to each other at restaurants. They don’t want to be, you know, six feet away. And some restaurant man called up, and he said, “You know, I’m worried because I have a small restaurant with not too many seats.” I think he said 120. And he said, “If I practice what this is, I’m down to 30 seats. I can’t make it.” I said, “Don’t worry about it. That’s for a short period of time. You’ll be back to your number of seats.” We can’t do that. Otherwise, you’re making everything — that means your stadium is half the size of what it was a month ago. No, no, they’re going to be close together, but they’re going to be breathing air that’s not infected, that’s not going to kill people. Please. Well, I’m not committing to it. I’m not committing to it. We’re going to see where we are. That’d be great if we could. But we’re going to be back to good health soon, in my opinion. We’re making a lot of progress, and we’re making progress because, as Tony told the story about the restaurant and about how they were separated sort of automatically, people are doing that. People are doing that. They’re staying in their homes. They don’t want to go out. They’re doing what they know is the right thing to do. It’s — it’s not very complicated. It’s — in many ways, it’s a very beautiful thing to see. Yeah. We have no contingency plan. We’re having the convention at the end of August, and we think by the end of August, we’ll be in good shape. We have no contingen- — you know, it’s going to be in North Carolina, as you know, in Charlotte. And I think we’re going to have a great convention. I notice — I think we had an opponent, but I — I almost didn’t know who it was. He got .00001 percent of the vote. But I heard he dropped out three or four weeks ago. I’m not sure. Maybe you could tell me. That’s the kind of opponent I had. And hopefully we have another one just like that in Joe. Well, I think we’re going to need more money for the small businesses. It’s been working out so well. It’s been so efficient. The banks have been doing an incredible job. I think we’re going to need more money there, I think. You know, we’ll see. But based on the first — the first couple of days, it’s been incredible. I think that restaurants and entertainment — and that would be — include sports leagues, all forms of entertainment — go back to the original, where they get tax deductibility for what they’re doing and for people who come in and buy tickets or go out for meals. And corporations can then send people into these restaurants who are going to have a hard time, otherwise, opening, in my opinion. And that could be the same for the sports leagues. So we want to see, for entertainment and for restaurants, deductibility so that corporations can take a deduction. They’ll send their executives, they’ll send people there, and they get a deduction. That is something that will really bring life back to the restaurants; I think make them hotter than before. You know, they used to have it. And when they ended it, it was really never the same. It was never the same. Yeah, please. That’s right. That’s right. Well, Tennessee just did it. Yeah. Yeah. We have a thing called the Constitution, which I cherish, number one. Number two, those governors — I know every one of them — they’re doing a great job. They’re being very, very successful in what they’re doing. And as you know, I want the governors to be running things. Now, in some cases, we’ll supersede, but in this case it’s not — I think it depends — it depends on the individual state that you’re talking about. But they’re doing very well, and they’re doing a magnificent job in running their states. No, I think they’re doing a great job. Well, that’s a very small number relative to population. That’s okay. It’s up to the — if I saw something wrong, I saw a massive breakout — of which that’s not — I would come down very hard. But — No, not in that case. But in the case — I know the states you’re talking about. By the way, I think you’re up to 92 percent is covered. Ninety-two percent of the country is covered. And from a constitutional standpoint, they made the difference. They called the shots. Yes, Jeff. Go ahead. No, I’m just saying we have to get this country open, Jeff. It has to get open. This country was not designed to be closed. So we have the greatest we’ve ever had, and then we’re paying people to stay home. Think of it: We’re paying people not to go to work. How about that? How does that play? And they want to go to work, by the way. They don’t even want — they don’t want money. This country is great. But we’re paying people. We have to get back to work. That’s what I’m saying. Go ahead, please. I thought he did a terrible job. Absolutely terrible. He took a whistleblower report, which turned out to be a fake report — it was fake. It was totally wrong. It was about my conversation with the President of Ukraine. He took a fake report and he brought it to Congress, with an emergency. Okay? Not a big Trump fan — that, I can tell you. Instead of saying — and we offered this to him: “No, no, we will take the conversation” — where, fortunately, we had that transcript. If we didn’t have a transcript with the kind of deception and dishonesty that were practiced by the Democrats, I might not be standing here right now. Okay? Fortunately, we had a transcript and it was a perfect transcript, because even the lieutenant colonel admitted it was correct. Okay? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. You asked a question. So he took this whistleblower — and I keep saying, “Where’s the whistleblower?” Right? “And why was the whistleblower allowed to do this?” Why was he allowed to be — you call it fraudulent or incorrect transcript. So we offered this IG — I don’t know him; I don’t think I ever met him. I don’t think I — he never even came in to see me. How can you do that without seeing the person? Never came in to see me. Never requested to see me. He took this terrible, inaccurate whistleblower report — right? — and he brought it to Congress. We offered to have him see my exact conversation. It was all about the conversation, by the way. That was the whole thing, was about the conversation. Right? And then after he saw it, he must’ve said, “Wow,” because as I’ve said it many times and it drives you people crazy, it was a perfect conversation. So instead of going and saying, “Gee, this is a terrible thing he said about the President’s conversation” — well, it was a fraud. I didn’t say that. And, by the way, you have the whistleblower. Where’s the informer? Right? And here’s another question: Remember before I did the — before I gave the transcript — in other words, before I revealed the real conversation — where’s the second whistleblower? Remember the second whistle — Wait, wait, wait, wait. There was going to be a second whistleblower. But after I gave the conversation, he just went away. He miraculously went away. Where’s the informer? Because there was going to be this informer. Maybe Schiff was the informer. You ever think of that? He’s a corrupt guy. He’s a corrupt politician. So, listen, I say this: Where’s the informer? Remember, the informer was coming forward. But I gave — because, see, I did one thing that surprised everybody. This gentleman right here said, “Boy, that was a shocker.” I revealed the conversation. I got approval from Ukraine because I didn’t want to do it without their approval. And they said, “Absolutely. You did nothing wrong.” By the way, President of Ukraine, Foreign Minister said, “He did nothing wrong.” And over that, with 196 to nothing vote by the Republicans — not one dissenting Republican vote — dishonest Democrats impeached a President of the United States. That man is a disgrace to IGs. All right, let’s go. Next. Please. He’s a total disgrace. Okay, we’ll get off this because people want to talk about what we’re talking about. But let me just tell you something: That’s my decision. I have the absolute right. Even the fake news last night said, “He has the absolute right to do it.” But ask him, “Why didn’t you go and see the actual conversation?” There was no rush. He said, “Oh we’d have to rush it.” He even said it was politically biased. He actually said that. The report could have been — you know who the whistleblower is, and so do you and so does everybody in this room, and so do I. Everybody knows. But they give this whistleblower a status that he doesn’t deserve. He’s a fake whistleblower. And, frankly, somebody ought to sue his ass off. All right, it’s enough with the whistleblower. Go ahead, please. Well, what he didn’t say is — okay, let me tell you what he didn’t say. Two very good friends of mine brought him those whistleblower — brought him those ventilators, right? Two very good friends of mine — they brought them. If you’d like their name, I’ll give you their name. No, but he — the governor didn’t — — mention that. It came through the Chinese — the country of China. But they were given by two friends of mine, but he didn’t tell you that. Now, the governor also — You’ll see when you read the letter. The governor also asked for 40,000 — 40,000. He wanted 40,000 ventilators. Now, the governor, as you know, had a chance to get 16,000 a few years ago. He decided not to get that. The State of New York has asked for help. I’ve given him four hospitals, four medical centers. Then I gave him an additional hospital. Then I gave him military people to operate the hospital. They were not supposed to be COVID hospitals. The boat — the ship is not — an interesting thing happened with the ship. People aren’t in accidents because there’s nobody driving. There’s nobody taking motorcycle rides down the West Side Highway at 100 miles an hour. People are away. So people aren’t being injured. Now they’re asking whether or not we could open up the ship for COVID. We have given the governor of New York more than anybody has ever been given in a long time. I’ll just say — I was going to say “in history,” but in a long time. And I think he’s happy. But I think that — because I watched what he said today, and it was fine. I wouldn’t say gracious. It wasn’t gracious. It was okay. I must tell you, Gavin Newsom has been gracious –Los Angeles, California, the job we’ve done, and all of California. It doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter. But I think when we’ve given as much as we’ve given to New York, somebody should say — Nice — I’ll tell you who’s been very nice: Mayor de Blasio has been very nice. He understands what we’ve given him. We brought him some more ventilators, too, yesterday. But nobody has been given like New York. And I think — I know he appreciates it. He just can’t quite get the words out, but that’s okay. Please, go ahead. To which one? Yeah. Well, Deb, I think maybe you should answer that, right? Dr. Birx, please? Yeah, sure — go ahead. Before I do that, you had breaking news last night — you know that; you saw that — where I think the probable presidential candidate for the Democrats will be Joe Biden, and he agreed that he was correct when I stopped people from China very early — very, very early — from coming into our country. And Dr. Fauci said that was a very big moment because it would be a much different picture we have right now had we allowed thousands and thousands of people from a specific area — I don’t have to go into it — from China, to come in highly infected. It would have been a very different thing. The other thing — so I appreciate the fact that he did, because I was called “xenophobic,” “racist.” I was called many things when I did that very early. And I got a lot of credit for it in the Federalist. Because the Federalist covered the whole journey. And they said Trump was — I didn’t speak to the author — respected author. They said, “Trump was right at every single move. And on top of that, he was going through a fake impeachment,” a hoax. I was going through a hoax, when I made the decision. And that does take a little time and certainly a little thinking time. But I appreciated the fact that Joe Biden announced last night that he now agrees that I was correct. You saw the report come out — that I was correct when I stopped people from China coming at a very early date. Which one? What? Yeah. Well, I don’t know much about it. I can only tell you this — Here we have one of the greatest — here we have one of the greatest ships in the world. Nuclear aircraft carrier. Incredible ship with thousands and thousands of people. And you had about 120 that were infected. Now, I guess the captain stopped in Vietnam and people got off in Vietnam. Perhaps you don’t do that in the middle of a pandemic or — or something that looked like it was going to be — you know, history would say you don’t necessarily stop and let your sailors gets off, number one. But more importantly, he wrote a letter. The letter was a five-page letter from a captain, and the letter was all over the place. That’s not appropriate. I don’t think that’s appropriate. And these are tough people. These are tough, strong people. I thought it looked terrible, to be honest with you. Now, they made their decision. I didn’t make the decision. Secretary of Defense was involved and a lot of people were involved. I thought it was terrible what he did to write a letter. I mean, this isn’t a class on literature. This is a captain of a massive ship that’s nuclear powered. And he shouldn’t be talking that way in a letter. He could call and ask and suggest. But he stopped in Vietnam. A lot of people got off the boat. They came back and they had infection. And I thought it was inappropriate for the captain of a ship to do — I don’t want to — I don’t want to comment as to whether or not. But I agree with their decision 100 percent. In the back, please. He just what? Well, he didn’t write anything. Look, he has people — he has professionals from the Democrats writing. Okay, he didn’t write that. That was done by a Democrat operative. He doesn’t write. He doesn’t — he’s probably not even watching right now. And if he is, he doesn’t understand what he’s watching. But just so you understand, it was very nice what they wrote. And, I don’t know — you know, they released it at a strange time. You know, sort of a strange time to release something like that. But he admitted I was right. And if you read the Federalist story, which most of you won’t because you don’t want to, but you’d learn something, because if you go — it goes to a chart, times. I was early. Dr. Fauci, I think — I don’t think he’s changed his mind, but he said it was a very important step when we stopped China from coming in from the specific area that was heavily infected. We’d have a whole different thing right now. So I don’t really know what Joe Biden said. I don’t really care. And again, I see — every once in a while I’ll say something, I’ll make a speech, and then it’ll be critiqued and I’ll get this beautiful, brilliant critique. Joe Biden didn’t write that. Joe Biden didn’t write that. He wished he did, but he didn’t. Go ahead. Please. Back. All right, Jeff, go ahead. We’re very disappointed in 3M. They should be taking care of our country. And they can sell to others, but they should be taking care of our country. The people that have dealt with them have dealt successfully with many companies over the last month. They don’t like the way 3M has treated our country. They don’t, frankly, like the representatives of 3M. And no act of pir- — you said piracy, right? Piracy? There’s been no act of piracy. No, there’s been no act of piracy. It’s the opposite. 3M has not treated our country well. And if they do, great. And if they don’t, they’re going to have a hell of a price to pay. Okay? I say it that way. And I watched him on television, on something, talking about how “this is so hard to believe, so hard to fathom.” They ought to get their act together. Because I got involved and I looked at what happened, and they have not — 3M has not treated our country well. Go ahead, please. We’ll get you the information. And I hope they use the hydroxychloroquine, and they can also do it with Z-Pak, subject to your doctor’s approval, and all of that. But I hope they use it because I’ll tell you what: What do you have to lose? In some cases, they’re in bad shape. What do you have to lose? It’s been out there for a long time, and I hope they use it. And they’re going to look at the — with doctors. Work with doctors. Get what you have to get. But we have it stockpiled, and it’s — we have a lot of it, and we’re getting more of it. And as I told you, I spoke to Prime Minister Modi. We’re getting more of it, but we have a lot of it. And I hope they use it, because it’s been used for a long time and therefore it’s passed the safety test. FDA has been terrific. Dr. Hahn, I appreciate it very much, too. But I’ve seen some results. Now, it’s early, I guess. It’s early. But — and you should — they should look at the lupus thing. I don’t know what it says, but there’s a rumor out there that — because it takes care of lupus very effectively, as I understand it. It’s a, you know, a drug that’s used for lupus. So there’s a study out there that says people that have lupus haven’t been catching this virus. You know, maybe it’s true, maybe it’s not. Why don’t you investigate that? And there’s also other studies, you know, with the malaria, that the malaria countries have very little — people that take this drug for malaria, which is very effective for malaria — that those countries have very little of this virus. I don’t know. You’re going to check it out. But I think people should — if it were me — in fact, I might do it anyway. I may take it. Okay? I may take it. And I’ll have to ask my doctors about that, but I may take it. Yeah, please go ahead. Well, OPEC can do whatever — look, I’ve been against OPEC all my life, because what is it? It’s an illegal — you could call it a cartel, you could call it a monopoly. You have a lot of different names for it. But it broke down very violently. Very violently. So I don’t care about OPEC. I really don’t. I couldn’t care less about OPEC. Let me just say — no, no. I think they’re going to settle it. You know why? Because they’re going to be destroyed. They’re destroying themselves if they don’t. Russia — it’s a very important — and we had a very good conversation, President Putin and myself. Very good. But Russia — a big part of their economic wellbeing is from oil. Well, oil is at a record low. Nobody has ever seen anything like it. It’s actually lower than you even think. And it’s to their advantage. Obviously, it’s to Saudi Arabia’s advantage. They told me they’re discussing. Saudi Arabia went much further than that. He thinks that a deal is going to be made at 10 million barrels reduction, and maybe more than that. He actually indicated it would most likely be much more than that. So we’ll see what happens. I mean, we’re going to see what happens. But as far as OPEC is concerned, I mean, I was against OPEC for years and years because I thought it was very unfair to our country. The beautiful thing is we have built one of the great — you know, one of the things we’ve done is created so much. We — we produce. We’re the number one producer in the world right now. I don’t like it for a different reason: because it’s going to hurt a lot of jobs in our country, this price. It’s going to hurt a lot of jobs. Now, with all of that being said, people are going to be driving, paying 90 cents a gallon. Did you ever hear of that? What’s that, 1952 or something? All right? So from that standpoint — but you know what? I am a big believer in our great energy business, and we’re going to take care of our energy business. And if I have to do tariffs on oil coming from outside, or if I have to do something to protect — or thousands and tens of thousands of energy workers, and our great companies that produce all these jobs — I’ll do whatever I have to do. Okay, yeah, ma’am. Go ahead. Well, he’s a good athlete, and he loves soccer. And he — he’s like everyone else. I mean, everything shut down. He’s in his room. He’s happy, but he’s not as happy as you could be. He’d like to be playing sports. Barron. And let’s see what happens. But we have to get back. We have to get back. Remember that. We have to get back, and we have to get back soon. Okay? Do you guys ever stop? Do you want to keep going for a little while? Huh? I mean, do you ever stop? How many times do you ask — and in many cases, it’s the same — actually, a lot of good questions. Go ahead. But keep going? Yes? So you’re not going to blame me that I kept it going too long? People said, “Oh, he kept…” No. I mean, no, it’s amazing. I’m telling you, every hand went up. I thought we’ve gone through — and they’re all — every — I think every single hand went up the last time. You know what it shows you? It shows you that you love what you do. Go ahead. You do. No, you do. And some of you do it well. Not all of you. Go ahead. I’m not looking at you, by the way. Look, the job numbers are what they are. We asked everybody to go home, don’t work. So the numbers are going to be, you know, astronomical. We understand that. I understood that. I know somebody said that the numbers are meaningless, and then they took that to mean, “Oh, jobs don’t mean anything.” And, you know, it was just another fake news story. It wasn’t me that said it, by the way. It was a very smart person. But they meant it by saying it really is what — that’s why I answer your question very carefully. The numbers are what they are. We know the numbers were going to be massive, because we told everybody to go home and lock your door, essentially. Right? “Don’t come to work. You can’t come to work. Don’t go outside. Don’t breathe. Don’t do anything.” We got to open up our country. But I know — I know that it’s coming back. And in my opinion, it will come back very strong. There’s a tremendous energy. There’s a tremendous demand. And some good things have happened. I mean — I don’t know. You know, there’s one habit that, as you know, most of you — and a lot of you have covered me a long time before I did this — I was never a big believer in shaking hands. But I decided, if you don’t shake hands, you’re not going to be winning a lot of contests. Right now, I’m not sure you have to shake hands anymore. A couple of people have told me — Deborah, you told me that if we didn’t shake hands, the incidence of flu — flu is a big deal also — and that flu might be cut down in half. Who knew that shaking hands was such a bad thing? I felt it. I mean, I always felt it. And, you know, I was never to a point where I can’t shake somebody’s hand. I knew people like that too. But there aren’t too many of them. But when I ran for office, all of a sudden, I’m shaking hundreds of hands. And if I don’t, I wouldn’t even be standing here. But I think that’s a custom that maybe people don’t have to. We have to get close together, we have to sit together at the stadiums, we have to sit next to each other in restaurants. All that stuff is going to happen, but I think the concept of shaking hands maybe is something that’s going to be a little bit from the past. Let’s see what happens. Maybe they’ll go right back to shaking hands. Good. Well, we’ve seen a lot of that. You might say something there. I have seen such support. I saw this morning where everyone — they’re clapping for fire department, they’re clapping for police. But they are really going — these people are — You know what they’re like? They’re like — Tony, they’re like warriors. Mike, they’re like warriors. They were going into Elmhurst Hospital, which has been tragic — right near where I grew up, in Queens — going in. And the people in buildings — there’s — going. I mean, they’re the rockstars. They’re warriors. Nurses, doctors, first responders, what they’re — what they’re going through. And they don’t even know what’s going to happen. I mean, they go in. And, by the way, even if they have great equipment they’re catching it. You know, great equipment. They have good equipment, they catch it. They catch it with good, with bad. It is evil. But, Tony, you might say something. And, Mike, you may say something about that. Pretty much what’s happening. Mike, please. And think also about the Army Corps of Engineers. Now, it’s a little different, depending on where they are and where they’re working. But the Army Corps of Eng- — throwing up a hospital in New York City: 2,500 beds in three days? I mean, think of that. And FEMA, what they’re doing. And the National Guard is now delivering for the state because the state were unable to get — we’d drop it at a big warehouse where we’re told to drop it, and the states were unable — some of the states were unable to bring it from the warehouse to the site. So we got the National Guard to become a delivery service, if you can believe it, and they would bring it. And some of those sites were dangerous sites. They were very dangerous sites. Think of that. It’s been amazing. It’s been amazing. I just think — I’ve never seen anything like it. I’m so proud of this country. And, really, it’s a world problem and some countries in the world are just handling it so well. You know, again, I keep saying it: It’s 151. That was as of two, three days ago. It’s probably more. Some people said they didn’t know there were that many countries. That’s how big this is. And Mike said something also. You have Palm Sunday tomorrow. Think of it. We’re not going to churches on Palm Sunday. But think of next Sunday: Easter. And I brought it up before: I said, maybe we could allow special for churches. Maybe we could talk about it. Maybe we could allow them, with great separation, outside on Easter Sunday. I don’t know, it’s something we should talk about. But somebody did say that, well, then you’re sort of opening it up to that little — you know, do we want to take a chance on doing that when we’ve been doing so well. But Easter Sunday, Palm Sunday. I’m going to be watching tomorrow live from Riverside, California — a great church. But I’m going to be watching on a computer. Right? On a laptop. I think, on Easter, maybe I’ll be watching from a laptop as opposed — So how sad is it that we have Easter Palm and Easter Sunday, and people are watching on laptops and computers? It’s sad. But — but the job that this whole country has done is amazing. But I’ll say this: Our medical professionals, what they’ve done, because they are — they walk into those hospitals; you see them putting on their gear and they’re putting it on as they’re walking through the front doors. And some of those people are going to die. They’re going to die. You know, it’s, like, incredible. And we can say what we want, Tony and Deb, about young and medium-aged. There are plenty of those people dying too. You know, it’s — it generally hits the older people where they have problems. It hits young people too, and it hits middle-aged people too. But these people are walking into hospitals, and they watch — I can’t — I think it’s — it’s incredible. And they’re putting their outfit, they’re getting it ready. And they’re going in. They’re going — it’s like — it’s like a — it’s like a war. Again, there’s never been anything so contagious as this. In 1917, it was vicious if you got it, but it wasn’t contagious like this. Now, in 1917, had they had the Internet and all the means of communication, they could have practiced distancing. You know, by the time, people started thinking in terms — in those terms, they lost, I guess, 75 to 100 million people. So that’s modern — you know, that’s a modern day, great thing that happened. Please. Well, I don’t know. I’d rather leave that to the doctor. Doctor, do you have an answer to that? And mitigation does work. But again, we’re not going to destroy our country. We have to get back. Because, you know, at a certain point, you’ll lose more people this way — through all of the problems caused — than you will with what we’re doing right now. What we’re doing right now, I think it’s going to be very successful. But you know what? I don’t know. We’re going to — we have a big decision to make at a certain point. Okay? We have a big decision to make. We went this extra period of time. But I’ve said it from the beginning: The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself. And we cannot let that happen. We have an incredible country. We were having the greatest period in our country’s history, from an economic standpoint and many other ways. We cannot let this continue. So at a certain point, some hard decisions are going to have to be made. Go ahead. That’s true. Could be. I mean, it could be you have shortages, and it could also be that you have some that have way overestimated the number of ventilators they need. We think that — you know, we have a good — a good amount ready to move. I mean, literally, like an army, they’re ready to move to any hotspot. But some of the ones that you’re talking about — always a nasty question from CNN — but some of the ones. Because I think that, frankly, you know — Because you know what? You’ve asked that question about 10 times over the course of about a month. Look, we’re mobilized and ready to go. We have a lot of ventilators ready to go. And if we had given them all out, we wouldn’t, and you would be overstocked in many areas. What we’re doing is we have a very good plan to take from some areas, even though we have the 10, or almost the 10,000. We’re also taking from areas that won’t be as badly hit as today we think they will be. There will be some areas hit harder than we think. And there’s nothing that Deborah or Tony or any of these professionals can do about it. This thing moves in a lot of ways. But what we’re going to do is we are going to have — and if you look at us compared to a lot of other countries, we’re in much better shape. But these professionals have done an amazing job. Now, over the next week and two weeks — this is going to be a very, very deadly period, unfortunately — but we’re going to make it so that we lose as few lives as possible. And I think we’re going to be successful. I think we already are successful in that regard. When you look at that graph and you see all of the — the “bumps,” if you want to call it, at a very low level, and you see a couple at a higher level — they were tough — but you see all of those levels. You know, when you look in — and when you hear about Italy and then you hear about France and then you hear about — you know, what we have is we have many Italys all over. We have — they’re like countries. California is a country; New York is a country — if you look at them from the standpoint of what we’re talking about. We have many, like, country spots. Some are hotspots and there’s nothing we’re going to do about it. One of the biggest surprises is Louisiana because it started off so good, and then all of a sudden, it shot up like a rocket. But we are going to try and have ventilators wherever we possibly can. Jeff, go ahead. Sure. Sure. Well, New York wanted 40,000 ventilators, okay? Forty thousand. Think of what 40,000 is. It’s like cars. It’s a big project. It’s an expensive product. I mean, some of them are $50,000 apiece. I saw one the other day: 55,000. That was before they start playing the games with supply and demand, okay? Some are very, very — you call them “luxury.” Some are not. But, frankly, these are very expensive products. These are very high-tech projects and products, and they take a period of time. We have thousands of them being built right now. Some will be ready. And we’re going to have extra, and we’ll keep them at hospitals. But a lot of hospitals, a lot of states had the chance of getting ventilators, and they turned those ventilators down for — so they could spend their money on something else. And in a way, I understand that because who thinks a thing like this — it’s not a knock. If I’m told — like, perhaps New York — you can spend a billion dollars on ventilators and get 16,000 or a massive number of ventilators that they’ve been offered over the years, or you can build a new bridge or road or something. I mean, I understand how that works. I’m not blaming anybody. I’m just saying they — a lot of the states had chances of stockpiling a lot of ventilators. They didn’t do it. And I think we’re doing a very good job in helping them out. Please, Jeff. And it’s a very fair question. I understand that question very well. Yeah. Sure. I’d like to ask also. Yeah, I’d like to say we know pretty much the line of attack. We know the numbers. The numbers are the numbers. They seem to be checking out, unfortunately. Or in some cases, you know, they’re on the low side, which we’re very happy. We want to keep them on the very low side, and that’s where we’re headed. And I think that’s maybe where we’re headed. But I’d like to ask maybe you and Tony, what are — where is the — where is the week or the number of days of greatest attack? What will be our worst day? If that’s possible to determine. I think that’s what you’re asking, right? And when will that peak be? Good. Thanks. Go ahead. And one of the reasons that I keep talking about hydroxychloroquine is that the question that nobody ever asks, and the question that I most hate the answer to, is: “What happens if you do have a ventilator? What are your chances?” And I just hope that hydroxychloroquine wins, coupled with perhaps the Z-Pak, as we call it — dependent totally on your doctors and the doctors there — because you know the answer to that question. If you do have the ventilator, you know the answer to that question. And I hate giving the answer. So I don’t want to get them there. I don’t want to get them there. There’s a possibility — a possibility — and I say it: What do you have to lose? I’ll say it again: What do you have to lose? Take it. I really think they should take it. But it’s their choice and it’s their doctor’s choice, or the doctors in the hospital. But hydroxychloroquine — try it, if you’d like. The other thing: If you have a heart condition, I understand. Probably you stay away from the Z-Pak. But that’s an antibiotic. It can clean out the lungs. The lungs are a point of attack for this horrible virus. But when you have a ventilator, don’t ask the answer because I hate it. If you have it, and it’s working beautifully — I don’t like the answer, because it’s not a very high percentage. So I want to keep them out of ventilators. I want to keep them — if this drug works, it will be not a game changer, because that’s not a nice enough term; it will be wonderful. It’ll be so beautiful. It’ll be a gift from heaven if it works. Because when people go into those ventilators, you know the answers, I know the answers, and I’m glad you don’t write about it. Mike, please. That’s so false. We’re way ahead of schedules. The banks have been great. JPMorgan Chase. Bank of America. They’re so far ahead. This is typical with you, in particular. “We hear they’re behind…” They’re not behind. It’s been a flawless — it’s been flawless, so far. Far beyond our expectations. You should say, “I hear you’re doing well, but maybe…” I don’t even hear of any glitch. They’ve done billions of dollars of loans to small business. And these are great loans. These are loans that get immediately paid off. These are loans that get businesses back. I wish you could ask a question where something is working so well. Now, maybe things won’t work well, and I don’t mind that kind. But where something is working so well and you ask a question in such a negative way — Uh, it’s doing great. Yeah, go ahead. It’s doing great. Really good. Maybe it won’t in two weeks, and I’ll respond differently. But it’s doing great. You know it and so does everyone else. Everyone is shocked how well it’s doing. Who did? Yes. I don’t think it changed much, has it? It’s the same pattern. Same answer that we’ve given you for the last — We can bring an updated graph, but it’s very similar. Please. We’re looking at it very seriously. Right now, we’re dealing with governors, we’re dealing with airlines, we’re dealing with a lot of different factors. It’s a very difficult decision. We’re also doing testing getting into planes. Very strong testing. States are doing testing of people that leave planes because they don’t want to have people coming in who are infected. So understanding that — and the level of testing has been enormous. Okay? And some states are saying you have to go in quarantine for two weeks if you come from certain areas. So, knowing that, we’re working with the governors. Both. Both. Some states are doing when they land — they’re doing very strong, very powerful testing. Please, go ahead. okay, well, then you’ll check them again. Governments are doing too — our government. Go ahead. Yeah, I would. No, Jack Ma is a friend of mine and he’s made it very possible to get about 1,000 from ventilators from China. But that was from him and my other friend. It was really a gift, and we appreciate it very much. It was very nice of them. All right. I think we’ve had enough. We’ll be seeing you very soon. And I’m sure that you know that all of us are going to be working very hard. We’re working very hard. We are really coming up into a time that’s going to be very horrendous, probably a time like we haven’t seen in this country. Wouldn’t you say? I mean, I don’t think we’ve seen a time like this in the country. And we’re getting to that — that point where it’s going to really be some very bad numbers. And we want to keep those numbers a lot lower than they would have been. And we will do that. We have tremendous talent working. We have tremendous people, and that includes governors; that includes everybody. Everybody is working. But unfortunately, we’re getting to that time when the numbers are going to peak, and it’s not going to be a good-looking situation. I really believe we probably have never seen anything like these kind of numbers. Maybe during the war, during the — a World War, or a World War One or Two or something. But this is a war all unto itself. And it’s — it’s a terrible thing. We will be seeing you soon. We’ll keep you totally abreast. We’re also going to be releasing new ventilator numbers, because we have a lot of them coming and a lot of them going to different locations. And we appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you. I just had a meeting with Kevin McCarthy, future Speaker of the House, I hope. And he’s done a fantastic job for the people of California. And also, the people of California have done a fantastic job, when you look at the — at the bump. You take a look at the bump and how they’re doing out there. So I congratulate everybody out there. But I thought I’d have Kevin say a few words. So, Kevin, please. Thank you. Great job you’re doing. Thank you. You go ahead. I’ll talk to you later. Okay, thank you very much, everybody. And I want to start by saying that our hearts go out to the people of New York as they bear the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic in America. That seems to be the hotspot right now. But you have some others, as you know, that are very — very bad. Very bad. Louisiana is getting hit very hard. Parts of Michigan are getting hit very, very hard. New Jersey is — is –surprisingly, it’s much greater than anybody would have thought. They’re doing a really good job. The governor is doing a really good job out there. New York’s first responders, EMTs, doctors, nurses are showing incredible courage under pressure. They’re the best in the world. We will take every action and we’ll spare no resource — financial, medical, scientific. We will not spare anything. We’ll get it back into shape. The Empire State — the governor is doing an excellent job. They’re all working very hard together. At the request of the governor, as you know, the Javits Center, we have 2,500 beds, and we’re going to allow that to be a system where this horrible disease can be looked after, the patients can be looked after. That was going to be for regular medical problems such as accidents. And, you know, it’s very interesting, the governor is telling me we don’t have too many accidents and very few people driving. So we’re going to put that facility into play, which is a big facility. The ship will be staying the way it is, but we’re putting that facility into play to help them. And today, also, the CDC is announcing additional steps Americans can take to defend against the transmission of the virus. From recent studies, we know that the transmission from individuals without symptoms is playing a more significant role in the spread of the virus than previously understood. So you don’t seem to have symptoms and it still gets transferred. In light of these studies, the CDC is advising the use of non-medical cloth face covering as an additional voluntary public health measure. So it’s voluntary; you don’t have to do it. They suggested for a period of time. But this is voluntary. I don’t think I’m going to be doing it. But you have a lot of ways — you can look at it as follows: The CDC is recommending that Americans wear a basic cloth or a fabric mask that can be either purchased online or simply made at home. Probably material that you’d have at home. These face coverings can be easily washed or reused. I want to emphasize that the CDC is not recommending the use of medical-grade or surgical-grade masks, and we want that to be used for our great medical people that are working so hard and doing some job. Medical protective gear must be reserved for the frontline healthcare workers who are performing those vital services. The new mask guidelines also do not replace CDC’s guidance on social distancing, including staying in your home when possible, standing at least six feet apart for a period of time. Again, we’re going to all come back together here. We’re going to all come back together. And practicing hand hygiene, which we should do anyway. A lot of things, I think, are going to spill over. Shaking hands maybe will stay with our country for a long time beyond this. One of the — one of our great doctors was telling me that — as you know, we have flus every year, and the number of people killed by the flu is very substantial. And said that if they didn’t shake hands, that number would be substantially lower. So maybe it’ll stay. Maybe some of these things, long term, will be good. But those guidelines are still the best and the safest way to avoid the infection. So with the masks, it’s going to be, really, a voluntary thing. You can do it. You don’t have to do it. I’m choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it, and that’s okay. It may be good. Probably will. They’re making a recommendation. It’s only a recommendation. It’s voluntary. We’re also taking action to ensure the cost of no barrier to any American seeking testing or treatment of the coronavirus. The largest insurer nationwide, the BlueCross BlueShield System, has now announced that it will not require any co-pays — which is really something; that’s a tremendous statement — from patients of the virus treatment for the next 60 days, similar to the commitments of Cigna, Humana, Anthem. Those are great companies, and they’re all doing the same thing. So, co-pays. For them to do that is — it’s a big statement. We appreciate it. Today I can so proudly announce that hospitals and healthcare providers treating uninsured coronavirus patients will be reimbursed by the federal government using funds from the economic relief package Congress passed last month. So that was as per the question yesterday and actually the day before yesterday. This should alleviate any concern uninsured Americans may have about seeking the coronavirus treatment. So that’s, I think, answers the question pretty well and very much in the favor of our great people. I’m also signing a directive invoking the Defense Production Act to prohibit export of scarce health and medical supplies by unscrupulous actors and profiteers. The security and Secretary — the Secretary of Homeland Security will work with FEMA to prevent the export of N95 respirators, surgical masks, gloves, and other personal protective equipment. We need these items immediately for domestic use. We have to have them. But we’ve done really well with the purchase of items, and you’ll be hearing about that shortly. We’ve already leveraged the DPA to stop the hoarding and price gouging of crucial supplies. Under that authority, this week, the Department of Health and Human Services, working with the Department of Justice, took custody of nearly 200,000 N95 respirators, 130,000 surgical masks, 600,000 gloves, as well as bottles — many, many, many bottles — and disinfectant sprays that were being hoarded. All of this material is now being given to healthcare workers. Most of it has already been given out. And we’ve given a lot to New York, a lot in New Jersey, a lot to other places. In addition to ensure that healthcare workers in New York have the protective equipment they need, the federal government, in the name of the Department of Defense, is providing about 8.1 million N95 respirators. Department of Defense. And we’ve already given 200,000 of them to New York City. Mayor de Blasio needed them very badly, so we got them to Mayor de Blasio in New York City. And they were very grateful. 8.1 million. And we’re going to be increasing that number from 8.1 million to more. That’s a lot of N95 respirators. Today, my team spoke with the CEO of Ochsner Health and the CEO of LCMC, the two largest health systems in New Orleans. They said they feel that they currently have enough ventilators — I think a lot of people are going to have enough ventilators — and masks, and appreciate what we did and all of the things we’ve been doing with them, working with them. The CEO of Ochsner, Warner Thomas — who’s really been fantastic, I have to say — indicated a need for 230,000 surgical gowns. And I instructed FEMA to deliver them tomorrow. So they’ll have the 230,000. That’s Louisiana — New Orleans. Two hundred and thirty thousand surgical gowns; they’ll have them by tomorrow. We’re expanding the role of the armed forces in our response effort because no one is better prepared to win a war than the United States military. And we are in a war. The invisible enemy — remember. Over 9,000 retired Army medical personnel have answered their nation’s call and are now supporting field hospitals and medical facilities all across the country, like what I just told you, that Governor Cuomo requested we do something in Javits, where we take it over. And we’re going to have that manned by the military, because it’s very tough to get people — more people in the New York area. So we’re going to have it manned by the military — Javits Center. National Guard members have been activated to help states build new treatment centers and assist in the seamless distribution of medical supplies. That includes National Guard. The National Guard is assisting very strongly because the states were, in many cases, unable to have the delivery capability from warehouses and other places that we put the supplies. So I’ve given approval to use the National Guards — the various National Guards in the different states. And they’re doing a fantastic job of not only protecting people but delivering material. The Army Corps of Engineers has assessed more than 100 facilities in all 50 states and is rapidly building temporary hospitals and alternative care sites in many states: in New York, New Jersey, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington Wisconsin, Ohio. They’re doing a lot of work in just those states, plus additionals, that are being — will be announced probably tomorrow. But they’re doing some job. The Army Corps of Engineers — what a job they’re doing. And FEMA — what a job they’re doing. As we deploy the power of our military, we’re also deploying the skill of our doctors, scientists, and medical researchers. We continue to study the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine and other therapies, and the treatment and prevention of the virus. And we will keep the American people fully informed on our findings. Hydroxychloroquine — I don’t know, it’s looking like it’s having some good results. I hope that — that would be a phenomenal thing. But we have it right now in — approximately now, it’s increased to 1,500 people. I spoke with Dr. Zucker in New York — terrific guy, by the way. He’s — we’re doing a good job. And I spoke to Governor Cuomo last evening and this morning about it. So it’s been there for about three and a half days, but I think — and many other places it’s being tested too. And we have a tremendous supply of it. We’ve ordered it in the case that it works. And it’s — it could have some pretty big impacts. And we’ll see what happens. My administration is also working to get relief to American workers and businesses. On day one of the Paycheck Protection Program, as Kevin said, more than $3.5. billion in guaranteed loans have been processed to help small businesses keep their workers employed during the unprecedented time — this unprecedented time. And Bank of America has been incredible. Of the big banks, Bank of America has really stepped forward and done a great job. And then you have the community banks, your smaller banks. And we’re already at $3.5 billion going out to incredible people. But that’s way ahead of schedule. The SBA and the Treasury are working around the clock, and our banking partners are really incredible. And they’re ensuring that the money gets to small businesses as quickly as possible, and then the small business, in turn, take care of employees that they would have had to let go, and now they’ll keep them. And that’s good. And then they’re going to open for business and they’re going to have their employees. And we’ll try and get back to where we were. Eventually, we’re going to supersede where we were. The energy industry has been especially hard hit in the crisis. This afternoon, I met with Greg Garland of Phillips 66, Dave Hager of Devon Energy, Harold Hamm of Continental Resources, Jeff Hildebrand of Hilcorp Energy, Vicki Hollub of Occidental Petroleum, Mike Sommers of the American Petroleum Institute, Kelcy Warren of Energy Transfer Partners, Mike Wirth of Chevron, and Darren Woods of Exxon Mobil. I informed them that we will be making space available in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to let American producers store surplus oil that can be sold at a later time. There’s a tremendous abundance of oil, primarily because of the virus. The virus has just stopped demand of everything, including oil. So we’re working with our great energy companies. These are great companies. They employ tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. And they’ve kept America really going for a long time. And no big price hikes, no big anything. I mean, they’ve just kept it going. And now they got hit. But with all the jobs and all of the good that they do, we’re going to make sure that they stay in good shape. America is engaged in a historic battle to safeguard the lives of our citizens, our future society. Our greatest weapon is the discipline and determination of every citizen to stay at home and stay healthy for a long time. And we want them to stay healthy for a long time. So stay at home. This is ending. This will end. You’ll see some bad things and then you’re going to see some really good things. And it’s not going to be too long. We will heal our citizens and we will care for our neighbors, and we will unleash the full might of the United States of America to vanquish the virus. And with that, I’d like to ask Mike Pence to come up, Vice President, and say a few words. And we’ll have a couple of other quick talks on a couple of subjects, and we’ll take questions. And it’s a beautiful Friday in Washington, D.C., and our country is a great place, and we’re getting better. We’re getting better very quickly. This was artificially induced. We just said — they said, “Close it down. You have to close it down.” We closed it down and we’re healing. We’re going to get it better fast. So, Mike, if you could come up say a few words. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Okay, let’s go. Steve? Well, I just don’t want to wear one myself. It’s a recommendation; they recommend it. I’m feeling good. I just don’t want to be doing — I don’t know, somehow sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful Resolute Desk — the great Resolute Desk — I think wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens, I don’t know. Somehow, I don’t see it for myself. I just — I just don’t. Maybe I’ll change my mind, but this will pass and hopefully it’ll pass very quickly. Now, with that being said, if somebody wants to — I mean, most people can just make something out of a certain material. So it’s very well designated, it’s very simple to do. I won’t be doing it personally. It’s a recommendation. Okay? And would you like to say something about that? Surgeon General, please. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Thank you. Okay. Jon? I leave it up to the governors. The governors know what they’re doing. They’ve been doing a great job. I guess we’re close to 90 percent anyway. And the states that we’re talking about are not in jeopardy. No, I would leave it to the governors. I like — I like that from the standpoint of governing, and I like that from the standpoint of even our Constitution. Please. Well, I pointed to him. Right? I knew we . I heard a different voice. I heard a different voice. Go ahead. We’ll get you later. Yeah. Well, a lot of things came out. It’s a great industry, it’s an important industry, it’s a tremendous job-producing industry. And it’s just vital. And it was also very interesting because they all were given the test before they came into the room. So you have the head of Exxon Mobil, you have all these guys taking the test, and they all passed with flying colors. So that was good. They left happy, in that respect, at least. There’s just an overabundance of oil right now — oil and gas. Tremendous overabundance. And it was caused — they were doing a great job. They were producing a lot of energy. But then you have the virus come along and it knocked another 35 percent, maybe 40 percent, off of the market. So there’s too much oil. There’s a glut. And these are great companies and they’ll figure it out. It’s free market. We’ll figure it out. And with the Crown Prince. Both. They were having a competition. We’ll see how it all works out. I think it’s going to work out very well. It’s going to take a long time to — to get rid of that. There’s massive excess amount of oil and gas. Massive. Like probably there’s never been. So where that does work out well, I guess you could say, is for drivers. I think, in certain locations, it’s down to 90 and 95 cents a gallon, right now, on the road. But we have a tremendous industry, a great industry. A tremendously important industry from the standpoint of jobs. And we’re energy independent. We have to make sure we keep it that way. All right, please. Go ahead. No, I didn’t know anything about that. That was done by the FDA — very capable people at the FDA. Please, go ahead. Yeah. I don’t blame them. They can push back if they want. We’re not happy with 3M. We’re not happy. And the people that dealt with it directly are not at all happy with 3M. So we’ll see whether or not we do. I heard what he had to say today. I don’t know the gentleman. But we’re not happy with 3M. Go ahead. I don’t know. But every time you ask that question — whenever he’s not here, you look, you say, “Where is he?” And you’ll say, “Is there a problem?” No problem whatsoever. Every time he’s not here — sometimes I’ll ask him to come because that’s the first question that you and a couple of others from the fake news establishment ask, is: “Where is Dr. Fauci?” We’re doing great together. Except we’re covering a different subject today. Go ahead. Go ahead, Jim. Try another one. Well, I always knew that pandemics are one of the worst things that could happen. There’s been nothing like this since probably 1917. That was the big one in Europe. It started actually here and went to Europe. Probably. I’ve heard about — Excuse me. Wait a minute. Let me finish. I’ve heard about this for a long time — pandemics. You don’t want pandemics. And I don’t think he was talking about a specific pandemic. He was talking about the threat of a pandemic could happen. And it could happen. Most people thought it wouldn’t and most people didn’t understand the severity of it. This is a very severe. What’s happened is very severe. But I’d let you answer that. I assume that he was talking about the concept of a pandemic. Previous administrations gave us very little ammunition for the military and very little shelf space. Let me just tell you — You know it — You know the answer. The previous administration, the shelves were empty. The shelves were empty. So what you should do is speak to the people from the previous administration, Jim, and ask them that question, because — — the shelves were empty. And you know what else? The military shelves were also empty. We had no ammunition, literally. And that was said by one of your favorite generals. “We have — sir, we have no ammunition.” Guess what? We had very little medical supply also. All right. Go ahead, please. Go ahead. We’ll get it back. We’ll get you back. We’ll get you back, please. Jim, I said we’ll get you back. Please, go ahead. It covers everything. But if somebody ordered — if Italy, if Spain, who has big problems — these have — these are countries with tremendous problems — France. If they ordered — if they have long-term orders and they’re in in there and they want to get certain things, I’ve let them go out, in certain instances, because I think it’s only fair. They have problems that are proportionately or relatively bigger than our problems. So if they ordered something and they’re waiting for, as an example, masks made here and going to Italy, I’m not going to be stopping that. I think it would be very unfair. And, by the way, speaking about being fair and unfair, two very big cruise liners, as you know, I allowed them to dock today. We worked with the governor of Florida, as you know, Ron DeSantis, and we worked on it and we had tremendous security. And we took the sick people and we’re working with them. We have doctors. We have great doctors, military doctors. And from a humane standpoint, not that we’re in love with this — these are two massive ships — but we have to take care of people. We have to take care. We sent many back to Canada. The Canada — the Canadians came and worked very closely with us, as did the UK. We had a lot of people from the UK. And we take — we took care of the Americans. We took care of the sick. We had some people very sick. I think we have three to four, maybe five people that had died on the boat. One of the boats, actually. And we had to take care of these people. So we couldn’t let them float aimlessly into the ocean, looking for port, as they’ve been doing for a long time. And I made the decision: We had to take them in. And Homeland Security and a lot of other people did a great job. But we had to help people. These are people that were very, very sick. Some were dying. Some died. Please. Go ahead. Yeah. Go ahead. No, I’m not concerned. No. I had a test yesterday. I don’t know. I mean, I just — I heard from the oil executives. These are people — most of them had not had the test. And, frankly, I think they left the room feeling good about a lot of things. But they felt good about the test. This was a test that took, I guess, 13 minutes to have it finalized. They took the test. I don’t know. I didn’t know they were doing that. Maybe they did it just for them. I don’t know. But — — it seems that a lot of people — because now we have tests that really work well. Abbott, in this case. Abbott. We have other tests being developed right now that are also fantastic. The original test — the ones we inherited, Jim, as an example, they were — they were broken. They were obsolete. They were not good tests. And that’s what we got stuck with. We’ve developed some incredible tests. But this took 13 to 15 minutes. And they were all fine. Go ahead. Finish — finish your question. Sure. Well, I address it in the following manner: We really are very well supplied. We are not the principal — it’s the hospitals, the states, the cities. They’re supposed to get everything they can and stock up in case something like this happens. But nobody could ever have assumed that something like this happened, so we started supplying. We brought tremendous amounts to New York today and over the last few days. We brought them to Louisiana. We brought them to Michigan. We brought them to Los Angeles. A lot of equipment. You’ve read the amount of masks that we had. I think I said over 8 million masks. The N95 masks. The, you know, more expensive, more complicated, better, whatever masks — the ones they want to use in the hospitals. We have millions of them now, and we’ve given them to a lot. We sent to Bellevue, in New York today — that was for Mayor de Blasio — 200,000 of them. But we have 8.1 million; we’re going to have more than that. And we’re getting them from various sources, including the military. We’re rapidly then replacing them, because we have to replace them in case there’s a — another emergency. I would be — gowns too. We have many gowns being delivered and have been delivered. Our people have done an incredible job. Most people have said — now, and I said this yesterday — governors have said, “Thank you very much. Great job.” If they’re a Democrat governor — in some cases; not in all cases at all — if I said, “Here’s 1,000 ventilators. How many do you want?” “We want 1,000.” “Here’s 1,000. You got ’em. But you know what we’re going to do? We’re going to add another 5,000. Is that good?” They said, “Wow, that’s great.” And then, if Jim Acosta goes and says, “Are you happy with the President?” “No, he should have given us 10,000.” That’s what’s happening. You know why? Because that’s a standard political answer. And that’s a shame because we have done a job like nobody has ever done a job. But we’ve just delivered a lot of masks. We’ve just delivered a lot of gowns and protective gear. But, you know, you’re talking about a massive — you’re talking about a massive number. But, as of this morning, people were very, very happy. Steve? No, they didn’t ask for a bailout. No. It was really more of a discussion than asking. We discu- — you know, we did discuss the concept of tariffs because, as you know, this was a dispute among a couple of countries that I think they want to be able to get it solved. They had a dispute. They had a competition. But they want to get it resolved. Russia — — and Saudi Arabia, I think want to get it — Yeah. I think they want to get it resolved. I think they’re working very hard. I mean, they told me they want to get it resolved. They’re working very hard. Go ahead. Well, why don’t you ask him? What’s that? A “gotcha”? “I gotcha.” You used the word “our.” “Our” — you know, what “our” means? United States of America. That’s what it means. It means — Our. Our. It means the United States of America. And then we take that “our” and we distribute it to the states. Not that we have to — Because we need it for the government and we need it for the federal government. But when the states are in trouble — no, to also keep — To keep — to keep for our country, because the federal government needs it too, not just the states. But out of that, we oftentimes choose — as an example, we have almost 10,000 ventilators and we are ready to rock with those ventilators. We’re going to bring them to various areas of the country that need them. But when he says “our,” he’s talking about our country. He’s talking — Excuse me. He’s talking about the federal government. I mean, it’s such a basic, simple question, and you try and make it sound so bad. You ought to be — you ought to be ashamed of yourself. You know what? You ought to be ashamed. It’s such a simple question. He said “our.” And “our” means for the country and “our” means for the states — — because the states are part of the country. Don’t make it sound bad. Don’t make it sound bad. Go ahead, Steve. Go ahead, back here. You just asked your question. You just asked your question in a very nasty tone. Let’s go. Please. I gave you a perfect answer. You know it. Go ahead. Sure. But it’s also needed for the federal government. We have a federal stockpile and they have state stockpiles. And, frankly, they were — many of the states were totally unprepared for this. So we had to go into the federal stockpile. But we’re not an ordering clerk. They have to have for themselves. Now, some of the states were in good shape. Some of the states were not in good shape. That’s probably something you could expect. We have been helping states. We have been spending a tremendous amount of time, effort, and billions and billions of dollars on making sure that they have what they have. I mean, take New York: We built them hospitals — I built them four hospitals — built them medical centers, sent a ship with 1,000 rooms and 12 operating rooms, and then on top of that, gave vast numbers of ventilators and vast numbers of surgical gowns, equipment, masks, everything else. Now, they had a chance to order ventilators over the years. They had a chance to order a very big — but they didn’t choose to do it. We were there and we helped them. And I think the governor of New York is very thankful for the help that we gave. But we have a stockpile. It’s a federal stockpile. We can use that for states, or we can use it for ourselves. We do use it for the federal government. We have a very big federal government. Go ahead. Well, we’re not a traffic cop. We’re a humanitarian cop. We help — it’s like the ships. Do you think we wanted to take two big ships into our country that have obvious problems? And you know the problems I’m talking about. So I have a decision to make: Do I take them in or do I save lives? Okay? Do I take them in or do I save? I decided to take them in. And we have tremendous protection. We have great doctors there to help the people. They had four or five people that died. That was as of last night. They died on the ships. We took care of it. And now the people are in the process of — and many are already back in Canada, they’re back in the UK — United Kingdom. And many of them were American citizens. Some were very sick. We’re taking care of the sick people. We’re testing all of the others very, very carefully — very, very carefully. They are being tested like you wouldn’t believe. And we solve a humanitarian catastrophe. You know why? Because nobody else would take the ships. Nobody else would take them. So we docked him in, I think, Fort Lauderdale. We do say that. We do say that. We say we’re — we say and use the Act. Excuse me, we do say that and we use the Act. And we’ve used it a number of times very powerfully. And a lot of times, we don’t have to use it, because we say, “We’re going to use it if you don’t do this or that.” And then we also have companies that act incredibly well. We have plenty of them — mostly them. But we’ve used the Act very powerfully. And a lot of times, you don’t have to exercise the Act; all you have to do is tell them, “Look, if you don’t do this, we’re going to use the Act.” And we’ve done a good job with it — maybe a great job. Yeah. No. Me sign? No. There’s millions of checks. I’m going to sign them? No. It’s a Trump administration initiative. But do I want to sign them? No. The people are getting — the people are getting their money. There’s a lot of stimulus going in a lot of different ways. There’s also stimulus going for companies that would — if it weren’t our government, would not — and some companies that were very strong a month ago. Again, we had the strongest economy in the world. We had our best ever. We had probably the best economy in the history of the world, bigger than China, bigger than anybody. And one day, we have to say, “Close it up. Stop. Everybody go home.” And you know what? That’s pretty tough to do that. I don’t know. All I can tell you is the small business today is — we’re way ahead of schedule. There is a problem where — and — which I pointed out; I said, “You shouldn’t do it this way” — with unemployment, where 40-year-old equipment by the states. We’re sending the money to the states. Once the money is sent to the states, then the states, whether they’re Republican or Democrat, have to get the money out to the people. Hopefully they’ll be able to do it. But many of those states have 40-year-old computers. I don’t know that they’re equipped. I wanted to give them money direct, if that’s what you’re talking about. I wanted to give the money out direct. It would have been much easier. But the Democrats and some people, said, “No, let’s do it the complicated way.” All right, well, I was talking about — Excuse me, I was talking about both. Yeah, they’ll get it. They will. Go ahead. Please. Sure. Go ahead, Deborah. It is going to go away. It is going away. It’s going — I didn’t say a date. I said it’s going away and it is going away. Okay, are you — Okay, that was a good answer to your question. No, no, no. No, no. No more. That was a long, but a very good answer. That was enough for you. Yeah, we’re going to do that. We’ll be talking about that at a different time. Yeah, please. Go head. Well, that’s up to Dr. Birx. You’ll decide as to when — I’m sure they’ll talk to you about that, and Dr. Fauci too. Please, go ahead. Go ahead, if you want — go ahead. No, they should’ve had more ventilators at the time. They should have had more ventilators. They were totally under serviced. We are trying to do — we’re doing our best for New York. You know, we have — we have states, we have a lot of states. We have territories too. But we have a lot of states that have to be taken care of, some much more so than others. We’ve worked very well with the governor. We happen to think that he’s well served with ventilators. We’re going to find out, but we have other states to take care of. We have a big problem in Louisiana, we have a big problem in Michigan, we have a big problem in seven other really strong hotspots, but we’re doing the best we can. I wish they did the original orders three years ago. They would’ve had all the ventilators they needed. Although even then they wouldn’t because if you look at what the original request was from New York, it was far greater than anybody ever heard. And we’ve — we’ve supplied a lot. I told you, we supplied some just today to New York, and we supplied some yesterday to New York City. Did you have one in the back? Yeah, please. I don’t think that was the question . No, no, he didn’t — he didn’t misspeak. He used the word “our.” Okay? “Our” — “our” is referring to our country. The states, to the best of my knowledge and to the best of your knowledge, are a part of our country. We are taking what is in the federal stockpile and we are helping states all over the country. But we also want to keep some because when that surge comes, when you hit those peaks, we’re going to need it. And we have to be able to have the flexibility to take those ventilators and bring them to Louisiana, New York, Detroit, different places. That’s all. Oh, of course. We’re not using them anywhere else. We’re not going to be using them, Jon, anywhere else. But we want the flexibility because, you know, we don’t even know when the surge is coming, but it’s coming soon and it’s going to be big, and some areas won’t have it. Some areas will be pleasantly surprised, just like we’ve been. You look at the chart. States that I thought would have been maybe a disaster turned out to be — really, they’ve done a great job. Some states are really troubled, but you don’t know. You don’t know. We have great flexibility. I would have preferred giving them all out. We’d have nothing. And now when we have a surge, we can’t get them back from where we gave them because it’s very tough to take it back. So we have tremendous flexibility. And it could be New York. It could be Louisiana. Those are two that are really rough. New Jersey is very rough. And they’ve done a very good job in New Jersey, but New Jersey is very rough. Go ahead, please, in the back. The guidelines relative to which — the masks? I’m just don’t choose to. They’re not mandatory guidelines; they’re guidelines. They suggest you could wear them. You don’t have to wear them. In fact, the Director is here. If you want to say a couple of words about it. You don’t — you can, if you want. You don’t have to. But basically, it’s — it’s a voluntary thing. Say it, Director. He’s doing a good job. And I was just tested also. So I assume I don’t know have the virus so I don’t have to worry about spreading it. Okay? Please, go ahead. Yeah. Well, I can always consider — look, tariffs have made a tremendous amount of money for our country. I put them on China, I put them on other places, and other countries tariff us, and they take advantage of us and they have for many years. Look, countries have taken advantage of the United States for years. They’ve ripped us off like nobody can even believe, whether it be on — on manufacturing, whether it be on exporting, whether it be on almost anything, including military, where we provide virtually free military assistance to countries that, frankly, take advantage of us, don’t even like us. Okay? So this has been going on for years. They tariff us. They create artificial — you could say non-financial barriers, which are worse than financial barriers. You can’t sell your product, you can’t take care of our farmers, they won’t take our — and yet, they’ll take us and sell into us, and we won’t charge them anything for doing it. Look, they’ve taken advantage of us for years. Tariffs are a way of evening the score. Tariffs are a way of just neutralizing. They have tariffs on us. And we now can put tariffs on them. Am I using it for oil? It’s something we can. No — am I doing it now? No. Am I thinking about imposing it as of this moment? No. But if we’re not treated fairly, it’s certainly a tool in the toolbox. Well, it would be the same thing. No, it would be the same thing. They are having a dispute — the two countries — and it’s hurting the rest of the world because it’s really hurting the energy industry. Russia is being hurt unbelievably badly and Saudi Arabia is being hurt unbelievably badly. Because oil and gas is a primary — that’s where they get most of their income. And this is a price like from the 1950s, all right? It’s a price from the 1950s. They are being hurt very badly. I think they’re going to settle their dispute pretty quickly. Go ahead, please. Well, they have increased production. That’s what they’ve done. They’ve increased it so much that there’s so — you meant the opposite. I meant — yeah. Why do you think you haven’t been successful in increase production? Yeah. Look, look, just so — well, they’re going to stop because the market. Ultimately, the market is going to get them to stop. But they both did the opposite. They increased production to a level that water is right now more valuable than oil. Who would have ever thought, right? You go to — you go to some of these kingdoms, water is far more valuable than oil. There’s so much oil. It’s a tribute, in a way. But what happened is there was a lot to start off with, and then you had the virus, and it knocked the hell out of the market, it — in terms of demand. So there’s no demand and there’s tremendous supply. So, I mean, you saw numbers where it was down to 20, and down, frankly, below 20. It was even below 20. It’s an incredible thing, the market. But ultimately the marketplace will take care of it. But I think they’re going to work out their problem fairly quickly. Okay, go ahead. I’d talk — if it were important to talk to her, I’d talk to her. If it were important for the American people, I’d talk to her. But other than that, I can have other people talking to her. Look, you ready? Infrastructure is a great thing for me. I think infrastructure for this country — we have an old, broken infrastructure. Fifty years ago, we were the envy of the world. And then we spent all this money so stupidly in the Middle East. We spent — it’s going to be very close to $8 trillion in the Middle East. How stupid was that decision? But they spent it on that and other things. We’ve got to fix our infrastructure. That means roads, highways, tunnels, airports, everything. We got to fix our infra- — And the beauty is because of the fact that we are so strong as a country, we’re borrowing at zero. We never had a chance to borrow at zero. Even in this country, we’d never had a chance to borrow at zero. We’re going borrow — this is a great time. So we can fix our infrastructure, and we’ll have almost no interest costs. This is the time to do it. Steve, one more question. Which trajec- — which one? I have many trajectories for many things. Say — say it. Say it, Steve. What? On what? On what? I’d have to ask Dr. Fauci, and I’d have — have to ask Deborah. Have the models changed? And, by the way, the models show hundreds of thousands of people are going to die. You know what I want to do? I want to come away under the models. The professionals did the models. I was never involved in a model, but — at least, this kind of a model. But you know what? Hundreds of thousands of people, they say, are going to die. I want much less than that. I want none, but it’s too late for that. But I want very few people, relative to what the models are saying. Those are projections. I hope they’re wrong. I hope we’re going to be under those projections. How come you always have two? Why can’t you have one? Every time, “I have three questions. I have two questions.” Can you give me one instead? Because we have a couple of other people. Go ahead. The general election will happen on November 3rd. In Wisconsin, what happened is I, through social media — media put out a very strong endorsement of a Republican conservative judge who’s an excellent, brilliant judge. He’s a justice. And I hear what happened is his poll numbers went through the roof. And because of that, I think they delayed the election. I don’t know. Why didn’t he do it before? He was doing right before the election. Excuse me. Why didn’t he do this two weeks ago? All of a sudden — Excuse me. All of a sudden, an election which is taking place very soon gets delayed. Now, I just endorsed him today and it was a very strong endorsement. His polls — he’s gone very high up. And all of a sudden, the governor comes out — the Democrat governor, by the way — comes out and says, “Oh, we’re going to move this election.” So, I don’t know. I’m sure — I hope you’re right. I hope you’re right. No, because I think a lot of people cheat with mail-in voting. I think people should vote with ID — voter ID. I think voter ID is very important. And the reason they don’t want voter ID is because they intend to cheat. When you get something, when you buy something, you look at your cards and credit cards and different cards — you have your picture on many of them. Not all of them, but on many of them. You should have a picture on your — on your — for voting. It should be called “Voter ID.” They should have that. And it shouldn’t be mail-in — Excuse me. It shouldn’t be mail-in voting. It should be: You go to a booth and you proudly display yourself. You don’t send it in the mail where people pick up — all sorts of bad things can happen by the time they signed that, if they sign that — if they signed that by the time it gets in and is tabulated. No, it shouldn’t be mailed in. You should vote at the booth. And you should have voter ID, because when you have voter ID, that’s the real deal. Thank you very much. We’ll see you tomorrow. Okay, thank you very much. It’s a great honor to be with the world leaders in American oil and gas and, really, I could say, the world leaders, period, when it comes to energy and American energy. The biggest companies anywhere — anywhere in the world. I want to thank Secretary of the Interior, David Bernhardt; Secretary of Energy, Dan Brouillette; and Ambassador Robert Lighthizer for being here. We’re also joined by Leader Kevin McCarthy, Senators John Cornyn, Kevin Cramer, Ted Cruz, and Dan Sullivan. Thank you. These are people that really want to see good energy at the good price. With us as well are Greg Garland of Phillips 66, Dave Hager of Devon Energy, Harold Hamm of Continental Resources, Jeff Hildebrand of Hilcorp Energy, Vicki Hollub of Occidental Petroleum, Mike Sommers of the American Petroleum Institute, Kelcy Warren of Energy Transfer Partners, Mike Wirth of Chevron, and Darren Woods of an extremely small company known as Exxon Mobil. Well, it’s smaller today than it was four weeks ago — — by about half, right? That’s all right. It’ll be better than ever. Today we’ll discuss the impact of the coronavirus on American energy industry. As the pandemic brought on by global economy — I mean, it’s an incredible thing that’s happened. Nobody thought this was possible. We had the greatest economy in the world. Probably, you were doing — all of you — the best ever. Everybody was doing the best ever. And then, all of a sudden, they said, “You have to shut down the country,” and they have to shut down the world, because the whole world is shut down, not the country. The whole world is shut down: 151 countries. Probably, it’s higher than that now. That was as of a week ago. So the entire world is shut down, trying to get rid of this scourge. And — and we’ll do it. I thought what I might do is go around the room and you just introduce yourselves to the media real quickly, and then we’ll have a discussion afterwards. You know, our 2.2-trillion-dollar relief package includes provisions to allow businesses to deduct their losses this year against taxes they paid in previous years, which gets you a lot of liquidity. And a lot of companies need the liquidity right now. And hopefully we’re going to be back in business very soon. We’re going to be open very soon. This country wasn’t built to be closed. And, essentially, we have a closed country. Nobody has ever heard of a thing like this. But this was — I was with some of the leading professionals, and they say not since 1917 has there been anything like this. 1917 was a time when, I guess, you could say, 50, 75, or 100 million — you hear different estimates — people died. Think of that: 100 million. Maybe 100 million people died. So they had no communications. They weren’t able to shut things down like we are doing. But that was a — that was a plague. That was a plague. It started here, actually. It went to Europe. We were badly affected, but Europe was really affected. So that was the worst. So not since 100 years ago — more than 100 years ago has this — a thing like this happened. I just want to start by saying it’s an honor to be with you. I know most of you, one way or the other. Some of you I know, and — but I know all of you by seeing you on the covers of all the business magazines and the magazines. And you’ve done a great job, and we’ll work this out and we’ll get our energy business back. I’m with you 1,000 percent. It’s a great business. It’s a very vital business. And, honestly, you’ve been very fair. You’ve kept energy prices reasonable for a long period of time. We’ve got a long period of time with very reasonable energy prices. So I want to thank you all for being here. And maybe we’ll start with Mike. Please. Thank you, Mike, very much. Appreciate it. Hi, Vicki. Thank you very much. Thank you, Vicki. We’ll get it done, Dave. Thank you very much. We think it’s going to come back quickly. It’s — it’s ready. We’re ready. And we’ve got the right packages out there. So — Very good. We’re looking at a — I think we’re going to be really looking very seriously at a infrastructure package where — it’s so important for our country. You know, as of this moment, Darren, we have $7 trillion-plus in the Middle East. For what? For what reason? And we don’t put money in our own country. So we’re going to do a big — a big package on infrastructure fairly soon, I think, and that’s very important. And it’s great for you, great for everybody. Darren, please. Good. Great job you’ve done. Thank you. That’s great. Great job you’re doing. I think President Putin and the Crown Prince want something to happen badly. Certainly terrible for them, what’s happening, too. So they want to see something happen. I’ve spoken to both of them and we’ll tell you about that in a little while. Okay? Thank you very much. Good. That’s great. Thank you. Great job. Thank you. And everyone loves that guy, right? We all do. Thank you very much, Kelcy. Great. Great job you’re doing, too. He’s not an oil and gas man. He’s a wonderful person and a wonderful politician and he wants to see the industry get strong again. So, Kevin, do you have anything to say, by the way? Yeah. It’s doing well. Thank you, Kevin. And as you just said, the Bank of America, in particular, has really — of the big banks — has really stepped into it. They have done a fantastic job. Today, it’s over — Yeah. Bank of America has been unbelievable. And I want to thank them. I want to thank all of the community banks and the smaller banks that have been loaning a lot of money — paycheck. It’s all about the paycheck. And that — nobody would have believed it could have gone so well. So it’s — it’s just a number of hours. But the numbers are far greater than we would have anticipated. So it’s been really great. And thank you to all the banks, but again, in particular, Bank of America. They really stepped right up and they did it. There were no big deals. They weren’t making a big deal out of anything. So that was terrific. And I think what we want to do — John Cornyn, please. I know how you are so involved in this, coming from the great state of Texas. Would you like to say a couple of words, John? Thanks very much, John. Really good job. And John agrees — we were talking about it the other day — that you’ve all done well, but you’ve also kept energy very affordable, really. Very, very affordable and very — a lot of it. We never had any problems. And we’re going to keep it that way. Do I see Dan back there? Dan? I was looking — I thought that looked like Dan. Thank you very much, Dan. And Kevin Cramer, North Dakota. People don’t realize how big a producer North Dakota is. Right? Harold — Harold knows, that’s for sure. Yeah. Well, it’s gone up. It’s gone up. And we have to. Otherwise, we do — we lose a lot of jobs too. We’re talking about one of the big job producers anywhere, Kevin, right? Would you have anything to say? Right. Thank you, Mike. Thank you. Very good. I think he’s around here. Where — where is Senator Cruz? I can’t believe it. He’s gone — he’s gone over to the evil side. That’s terrible. Cruz, what are you doing there? Good. Thank you very much, Ted. And while you’re up, the concept, and, for instance — I think we should say it in front of the media — but oil reserves, storing oil. We’re filling up the national reserves, as you know. We’re getting the oil at a great price. But at these prices — in fact, Kevin and I have been speaking about it; John and I have been speaking about it — at these prices, you would think you’d want to fill up every cavity that we have in this country. And there’s some areas in Louisiana and other areas that could be filled up; they hold a lot of oil. But at these prices — and it would be good and it would keep everybody working — but you would think you’d want to fill up those areas. What do you think of that, Ted? Yeah. Yeah. No, it’s — Twenty-dollar oil. Think of it. Twenty dollars. It’s politics. It’s all right. I think you should go back though, Kevin. I think you should go back and see, John, if you guys can go back and do a separate bill. And beyond that, you know, I think it’s 75 million barrels right now to fill it up. That’s not that much. So it’s fairly in pretty good shape. But we have other areas that are bigger, frankly, that we can fill up too. But at those prices, we should be — we should be pumping it out. So maybe you guys can check on it and see what you can do about it. I don’t think anyone can reject it. Nobody can reject it. Ted, you’ll work on that? Anybody else? David, you guys okay? David, you want to say something? He’s the biggest landlord in the country. Meaning, it’s called Interior. Interior is a lot of land, when you look at it. Thank you. Great job you’re doing. So, Dan, go ahead. Thank you, Dan. Good. I figured you would. I actually wasn’t worried about it. What are you paying per barrel? What are you paying? He didn’t want to answer. What are you paying per barrel? A flexible price or would it – So we’re going to go negative, like interests rates. Negative. Dan, check out other areas where you can store oil. And there are some very big ones, bigger than what we have now. And at these prices, you should do it. Refill it up, right? Fill up the tank. Okay, Bob Lighthizer, you’ve been so great. And this isn’t your meeting really, but Bob has done some of the best trade deals ever done in our country. And one of them has kicked — it actually kicked in on April 1st, and that’s with China. And I hope they’re buying a lot. I hope. Want to say something? He’s very shy. That’s good. He just wants to make deals. That’s all. And you’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. We will have a news conference at about 5 o’clock, 5:15 maybe. And so we’ll see you in a little while. We’ll answer questions. But this is a great group of leaders, and we’ve got to make sure that we preserve and even make greater our energy industry. And I want to thank all of the senators and congressmen, the boss here, for being here and for working so hard. They are — I’ll tell you what: They are calling me constantly. They want your industry to be successful and they really — and they’re going to make it that way. We’re all going to make it that way. So I’ll see you at 5 o’clock and — same place. We look forward to it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, would anybody like to be tested? How about you? You want to be tested? Huh? We might — we might be able to do that. You know, it’s a great question. No, you know what? I like it. Let’s test these guys. You know, they gave us millions of jobs. Listen, they gave us millions of jobs. If anybody wants to be tested, we’ll test you. I want to test the head of Exxon. No. Not for every meeting. Okay. Thank you very much. Good to be with you all. We’re in a very critical phase of our war against the coronavirus. It’s vital that every American follows our guidelines on the “30 Days to Slow the Spread.” The sacrifices we make over the next four weeks will have countless American lives saved. We’re going to save a lot of American lives. And we’re in control of our own fate very much so. Maintaining social distance, practicing vigorous hygiene, and staying at home are your most effective ways to win the war and to escape danger. While you’re fighting this battle from home, we’re working with the best scientists, doctors, and researchers anywhere in the world. We’re racing to develop new ways to protect against the virus, as well as therapies, treatments, and ultimately a vaccine. And we’re making a lot of progress. I think, medically, a lot of progress. At the same time, we’re also racing to get relief to American workers and small businesses, as you know. I want to remind small-business owners across America that the Paycheck Protection Program is launching tomorrow. Nearly $350 billion in loans will be available to small businesses, including sole proprietors. These loans are up to 100 percent forgivable as long as employers keep paying their workers. Got to take care of your workers. Furthermore, we want Social Security beneficiaries to know that if they are typically not required to file a tax return, they don’t have to file one in order to receive the direct cash payments that will soon be distributed to American citizens. The Treasury will deposit the money directly into the bank accounts. And don’t forget, I will always protect your Social Security, your Medicare, and your Medicaid. We’re protecting Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, and I always will. I’d like now to invite SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza, who’s doing a fantastic job — she’s going to be very busy in the next little while — and Secretary Steve Mnuchin to say a few words about these vital initiatives. And then we’ll get on to the attack of the virus itself. And please, if I might, Steve and Jovita. Thank you, Jovita. Very good. Thank you. Thank you, Steve. For Jovita or Steve, any questions, please? Okay? Thank you all very much. Thank you, Jovita. Thank you, Steve. Great job. Thank you. Okay, so that begins right away and they start handing out checks. And a lot of people are going to have their businesses built back up quickly, I hope. And we’ll see. It’s complicated, big. Small business is actually big business. So I thank them both. And please — good. We have some great gentlemen. Let me see. Great gentlemen. That’s correct. Thank you very much. Today, my administration is also issuing new guidelines to protect elderly Americans who remain the most vulnerable. By now, nursing homes should have suspended the entry of all medically unnecessary personnel. Today, we’re further recommending that all nursing home facilities assign the same staff to care for the same group of residents consistently to minimize any potential spread. And we’re also urging facilities to designate separate areas for healthy and sick residents. And this is a practice that we probably will be recommending into the future, long after the enemy is gone — this particular enemy is gone. We’re also making every effort to provide relief to our great veterans. We take very good care of our veterans. At my direction, Secretary Wilkie will use any authority at his disposal to extend deadlines for benefits and to postpone debt collections. We’re now conducting well over 100,000 coronavirus tests per day. It’s over a thou- — a hundred thousand test a day –and these are accurate tests and they’re moving rapidly — which is more than any other country in the world, both in terms of the raw number and also on a per capita basis. The most. The FDA has also authorized the first coronavirus antibody test developed by Cellex, a key step that will help identify people who have recovered and to understand their immune response and their immune system. Moments ago, I directed Secretary Azar and Acting Secretary Wolf to use any and all available authority under the Defense Production Act to ensure that domestic manufacturers have the supplies they need to produce ventilators for patients with severe cases of C-O-V-I-D 19. You know what that is, right? Become a very famous term: C-O-V-I-D — COVID. This action will help General Electric, Hill-Rom, Medtronic, ResMed, Royal Philips, and Vyaire Medical overcome obstacles in the supply chain that threaten the rapid production of ventilators. We have over 100,000 being built right now, or soon to be started. We anticipate issuing more orders under the Defense Production Act in the very near future. In addition to the one that I’ve just signed against 3M for facemasks — we just signed an element of the Act against 3M. And hopefully they’ll be able to do what they are supposed to do. I just spoke to Mary Barra of General Motors and she said they’re very soon going to be ready to start production of the ventilators. They have a lot of ventilators that they’ve committed to build, and they’ll be starting very, very quickly. FEMA continues to deliver resources to areas most affected by the virus, including New York. On top of the 3,000 beds we’re already providing to the Javits Center, the Department of Defense is adding another 48 ICU beds. Governor Cuomo has asked that this facility go — and it’s a big, beautiful facility — it be converted to a COVID hospital. And we hadn’t done that yet. We hadn’t thought in terms of doing that. But their use is — their real demand is for that. And we had meetings on it with the task force. We had meetings with the military. And I’ve decided to say, “Yes, I’m going to do that,” that I will be signing and agreeing to a “yes” answer. So that — we will be doing that, and also, we will be staffing it. So the federal government is doing a lot of things that wasn’t anticipated that it do. This is a 2,500 — and/or 2,900 can easily be set up — hospital built in Javits Center. And so we’re going to be converting that to a COVID-19 hospital. And it’s going to be staffed by the military and by the federal government. And based on the fact that I agreed to that, we had two other facilities that were likewise asking for it, and that would be in Louisiana and also in Dallas. And we’ll be doing those. We spoke to the governor of Louisiana, spoke to the governor of Texas. And we’ve told them that we will be staffing those hospitals, again, above and beyond, but that’s okay. We have to do that. In addition, the USNS Comfort is docked in New York to accept patients. That is a non-COVID. To date, FEMA has delivered more than 4 million N95 mask respirators. And it’s — think of that: 4 million. Four million. Don’t forget, we’re a secondary source. The states are doing it and we’re backing them up. But we’ve gotten 4 million N95 respirators, 1.8 million surgical masks, 460,000 face shields, 1.4 million gloves, and 4,400 ventilators just to the city and to the state of New York. And some of them now are being sent. I spoke with both Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio a little while ago, and some of them are being sent to the city. All of America stands with the people of New York in this time of need. It’s definitely a hotspot, but we have other hotspots also. And we’re taking them — taking care of them very, very strongly, very powerfully. We have the finest people in the world in those locations. And I think the federal government has not only acted early but acted quickly, professionally. There’s no people like this. Doctors, nurses, first responders, and other healthcare providers who want to help New York at this critical time should visit website NYC.gov/HelpNow. NYC.gov/HelpNow. They need help now. They need people to help them. We have great facilities, and we’ve built some brand-new facilities, big ones, but we need help. We need help for professional people. So if you’re in an area that isn’t so affected and you’re a doctor, a nurse, a healthcare worker, please get to that website. And we would really appreciate your help. New York City needs it. Louisiana, by the way, needs it. Michigan needs it. Whatever you can do. Those are very strong hotspots; they need help. In recent weeks, as the virus has spread and economic hardship has followed, we have seen Americans unite with incredible selflessness and compassion. I want to remind everyone here in our nation’s capital, especially in Congress, that this is not the time for politics, endless partisan investigations. Here we go again. Have already done extraordinary damage to our country in recent years. You see what happens. It’s witch hunt after witch hunt after witch hunt. And in the end, the people doing the witch hunt have been losing, and they’ve been losing by a lot. And it’s not any time for witch hunts. It’s time to get this enemy defeated. Conducting these partisan investigations in the middle of a pandemic is a really big waste of vital resources, time, attention. And we want to fight for American lives, not waste time and build up my poll numbers, because that’s all they’re doing because everyone knows it’s ridiculous. So we want to focus on the people of this country, even the people of the world — we’re going to be able to help them — because, right now, as an example, we’re building so many ventilators — very, very hard to build — but we’re building thousands. Thousands of them. And a lot of them will be coming at a time when we won’t need them as badly, because it takes time. Very complex, very expensive. And we’ll be able to help outside of our country. We think we’ll be able to help. That’s something that you cannot easily produce. As citizens, we’re linked together by the shared bonds of national love, loyalty, and affection. There’s no earthly force more powerful than the patriotic pride that stirs in our hearts. And that is so true. It’s incredible the job that everybody has been doing. Everybody. They don’t sleep. They don’t go to bed. Sometimes they get nothing. I said to somebody recently on the task force, “How many hours’ sleep have you gotten over the last couple of days?” The answer was “none.” None. In one Massachusetts neighborhood, citizens come out of their homes each night at 8 o’clock from their porches and they sing “God Bless America.” Others have joined in spreading from house to house, down one street, up to the next, until their little town with a spirit of patriotism, and reminding all Americans that we’re all in this together. We’ll fight together and we will win together. We’re going to win this. Now, what I’d like to do is — I’m going to step out. We have a meeting on this subject. And I’m going to step out just for a few moments. I’ll be right back. We’ll answer some questions. But you have some very hardworking people who have done an incredible job, led by Vice President Mike Pence, head of the task force. And then Jared Kushner is going to say a few words. And Admiral Polowczyk, Peter Navarro, Dr. Birx, and myself. I’ll be right back. So I’ll see you in a little while. I did take a test; it just came out. This is from the White House physician. You may have it. It just came out. I just took it this morning. And I took it. It took me literally a minute to take it. And it took me, I guess it was 14 or 15 minutes. I went to work. I didn’t wait for it, but he said it took 14 minutes, or something, to come up with a conclusion. And it said, “The President tested negative for CVOID-19.” So that’s the second one. I think I took it, really, out of curiosity to see how quickly it worked and fast it worked, and it’s a lot easier. I’ve done them both. And the second one is much more pleasant, Jeff, I can tell you that. Much more pleasant. So I’ll be back in a little while. And, Mike, please take over. Thank you. Thank you all very much. I’ll be right back. Sure. No, you’re doing a good job. Thank you. Go ahead. Go ahead. Answer — You go ahead. Come here. Come here. Come. And, by the way, we’ve cut them out also, to be honest. We’ve stopped orders going from certain places. And in a couple of places — like, we had a big order going to Italy on important outfits and some ventilators, and it was going to Italy. They made the order a long time ago. And I said, “You got to let it go.” They had an order. And I could have cut it, under the Act. I could have cut it. I said, “Nope, you can’t do that. You got to let it go.” You know, they have big problems. We had an order going to Spain, and I said, “Let it go.” I could have stopped it. I said, “Let it go.” We’re going to be fine. I said, “Let it go.” So it works that way also. One other thing, as to your question: Oftentimes — and we’ve told this to the governors — Mike, we’ve been very strong on this — have — if you think there’s bidding between federal government and state, let us know and we’ll drop out immediately, or you drop out and we lower the price. No, no. If we’re bidding against each other, I said find out who it is. And usually, they know. Everyone knows. And we’re notified and we get notified, and we’ll either drop out or they’ll drop out. But we have another problem: There are 151 countries out there, beyond the states. There are 151 countries that have this problem. And they’re ordering too. It’s really a mess. Now, in a little while, the hardest thing to get are the ventilators because they’re — you know, it takes a while to build them. And we have a lot. We have thousands of them being built right now. In a little while, they’ll be worth about five dollars. But right now, they’re very valuable. And we’re going to have a lot of them being shipped. And, in fact, that’s why General Motors called up before — Mary. That’s why others called up two days ago. They called up that they’re all in production. And they’ll start — they’re starting to arrive in a week and a half. But there’ll be a time when we’re going to build stockpiles. By the way, the states should have been building their stockpile. We have almost 10,000 in our stockpile. And we’ve been building it, and we’ve been supplying it. But the states should be building. We’re a backup. We’re not an ordering clerk. We’re a backup. And we’ve done an unbelievable job. Like, for instance, who ever heard of a governor calling up, “Sir, can you build us a hospital of 2,500 rooms?” And we built it. “Can you build us four medical centers?” We built it. “Can you deliver a ship — a hospital ship — with 1,000 rooms?” And we did it. And we did it in Los Angeles, too. We’ve been an unbelievable — we’ve done an unbelievable job — these people. And so — and thousands of people behind them. But we’re a backup. Ideally, those hospitals would have had all this equipment. Ideally, those states should have had all this equipment, and I think they will the next time. You know, you heard the case where thousands of ventilators could have been had at a very inexpensive price three years ago. And a certain state decided not to exercise that right because they wanted to build a road or they wanted to build something else because it’s big money. You’re talking about — I think it was a billion dollars. But you’re talking about a lot of money for something that may never happen. Because normally, on a ventilator — other than a pandemic or an epidemic — you wouldn’t — you wouldn’t need anything like this. Hospitals have three ventilators — big hospitals — and they get by with it. And now they want thousands. I mean, they want thousands of ventilators. You call up a governor and he’ll say, “Sir, could you send us 40,000 ventilators?” Nobody has ever heard of a thing like this. So, they’ve done some job. Let me just tell you, when Secretary Mnuchin spoke, they want you to call not “.com” but SBA.gov — okay? — for the application and for information. Okay? So it’s SBA — small business — SBA.gov, okay? If you don’t mind. Yeah, let’s go. Please. Right. Well, we’re — we’re doing better than that. Yeah. No, I understand the question. And we’re doing better than that. We’re going to try and get a cash payment to the people. And we’re working out the mechanics of that with legislature. So we’re going to try and get them a cash payment because just opening it up doesn’t help as much. So we’re going to work it out. So we’re going to try and get for that certain group of people — it’s a certain group of people — a cash payment. Go ahead. Well, they have that, and they have to work that out. What they should do is they should have — long before this pandemic arrived, they should have been on the open market just buying. There was no competition. You could have made a great price. The states have to stock up. It’s like one of those things. They waited. They didn’t want to spend the money because they thought this would never happen. And their shelves, in some cases, were bare. And, by the way, in some cases they weren’t. They were beautifully serviced. They did a good job. But in some cases, their shelves were bare. So the best thing they can do is when times become normalized — and they will, hopefully soon — and actually, you’re going to have a lot of excess material because so much is being done right now in terms of protective gear, protective outfits. A lot is being done. It’s going to be — within six months, it’s going to be sold for the right price. They got to stack up for the next time. But we are doing that. And the Admiral has done a fantastic job. Senator Schumer wrote a letter today and he says, “You should put a military man in charge.” I said, “Well, Chuck, if you knew a little bit more, we have one of the most highly respected people in the military: the Admiral.” This is what he does too, very professionally. And he’s in charge. But Chuck didn’t know that. Okay. Jeff, please. I don’t know what they’re agreeing to. I think they might agree to more than that. Look, Russia — Russia — Yeah. He did say that actually. Russia talked about 10 million barrels. Russia and Saudi Arabia are fighting over this. And as everybody knows, it’s, you know, really killing an industry; hurting Russia badly, hurting Saudi Arabia badly. I said, “This is an easy one.” It should be an easy one. And it may be 10 and it may be more than that. I was actually told it may be 10. As I told somebody before, it may be 10, and it may be more than that. Maybe it’s 15. Maybe it goes up to 15. Could be as high as 15. And, you know, there’s a tremendous oversupply right now. That industry was — it was over-supplied before the virus. And when the virus came along, they lost 35, 40 percent of the world. And there’s an unbelievable — you can’t get a ship now. Every ship is loaded to the gills, sitting out someplace in the ocean. They’re storage tanks. They’re not even ships; they’re storage tanks. So it would be great for Russia, it would be great for Saudi Arabia. I hope they make that deal, but that’s what they told me they said — — they said it’s — Well, I think it will be hopefully soon. I think hopefully they’ll announce something soon. Now, can a deal be broken? Can something happen where it doesn’t happen? I guess. In which case there’s another alternative. But I’d rather not see that other alternative. I hope they can make a deal. They both want — I think they both want to make a deal. And they’re both smart. They love their countries. They want to make a deal. It’s good, but it’s also good for the world if they do because you save an industry. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Go ahead, in the back, please. I’m going to let Mike, because we went over this very specifically. And I’ll let you talk about it, Mike, because you responded last time. Go ahead. No, but I talked to him about it. And he wants to do what’s right for the people of Florida. He’s been a great governor. You could see that just by his popularity, which is extraordinary. We’re proud of him. He’s done a fantastic job and he made the decision. But we spoke before he made the decision, yes. That I haven’t heard. No, that I haven’t heard. I haven’t heard that. Yes, please. Well, I think they’re going to be coming out with regulations on that. And if people want to abide by them, frankly, I don’t think you — I don’t think there’ll be mandatory, because some people don’t want to do that. But if people wanted — as an example, on the masks, if people wanted to wear them, they can. If people wanted to use scarves, which they have — many people have them — they can. In many cases, the scarf is better; it’s thicker. I mean you can — if you — depending on the material, it’s thicker. But they can do that if they want. Now, a recommendation is coming out. We’ll see what that recommendation is, but — But I will say this, they can pretty much decide for themselves right now. Nationwide. Yeah. Sure. All right, maybe I will ask — — Dr. Birx. And you might mention that other point also. Yeah, thanks. Good. Go ahead. They are being made. They’re moving very quickly — it’s happening — in this case. No. No, No. We didn’t discuss that. They want to do that, that’s good for their countries, and we did not discuss that now. Oh, I don’t think so at all. But we’re going to wait a little while because I understand there’s a news conference by the Secretary of Defense about that. But, you know, I don’t — I don’t agree with that at all. Not at all. Not even a little bit. Yeah. Well, they have experts. And, frankly, long after, we came out and talked about it — look, how would I have known to cut off China? I cut off China very early. And if I didn’t, we would have a chart that you wouldn’t believe. So how would I know to do that? How would I know to cut off Europe? I cut off Europe very early. I mean, you have to make a decision. People knew that some bad things were going on, and they got off to a late start. And some others got off to a late start also. But we cut off China. If we didn’t cut off China, we would have been in some big trouble. And we cut it off. And you know what? We cut it off way early. Go ahead. Too bad. Who are you with? Who are you with? Right. Right. So, we haven’t discussed it, but we’re talking to them. You know, getting them not to pay copays, in the case of the big ones, was a tremendous thing. That’s a lot of money they gave up. But we’re discussing that with the insurance companies. We’ll let you know. It’ll be pretty quickly. Yeah, go ahead. Well, we’re looking at a lot of things and a lot of different bans. We have more bans than anybody. We had bans when bans weren’t fashionable if you remember, right at the beginning of this administration; it was for different reasons. But we’ve had bans long before people thought of bans. When I did China, it had never been done before. I was the first one to do it. Remember that. It had never — according to what I read in all the papers, this had never been done. This is a terrible thing to do. And four weeks later, they were all saying, “We’re lucky we did it.” So we’re looking at it. No, we heard that. And I think it’s fine that they do that. They’re trying to protect their country and we have to protect our country. Yeah, please. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He’s a good governor, Brian Kemp. He’s a very good –- He’s a good governor and he has to make his own decision on that. I let the states — I think we’re about 85 percent positive on that, if you look. I think it’s about 85 percent of the states have got the stay-at-home. Brian is a great governor. We’ll — it’s his decision. He made that decision. Ultimately, he decided to go along with it. And they’re doing — and they’re doing well. And the state is doing well, in many respects. Yeah, go ahead, please. We’re accepting it. It was a very nice offer from President Putin. I spoke to him the other night, as I told you. And they had excess medical equipment, things. And I’ll take it. I’ll take it. I think it’s very nice. We’ve had some from China. We also help other countries. We like doing that. Like I said before, if we have excess stuff, we let it go out. We let some go out where, frankly, they had orders for it and I didn’t want to stop orders. It was a very nice gesture on behalf of President Putin. And I could’ve said, “No, thank you,” or I could have said, “Thank you.” And it was a large plane of very high-quality medical supplies. And I said, “I’ll take it.” I think he would, if we asked for it. But he was very nice. It was part of the call. He suggested — he said, “We have it. It’s additional.” They have very big difficulties with this virus also, as you know — Russia. I thought it was a very nice gesture on behalf of President Putin. I could have said, “No, I don’t want it,” or I could have said, “I’ll take it.” And you know what I said? “I’ll take it.” I think so, yeah. If they sent things that we need, I’d take it. Sure. Nice gesture. I’m not concerned about Russian propaganda, not even a little bit. He offered a lot of medical high-quality stuff that I accepted. And that may save a lot of lives. I’ll take it every day. Please, in the back. Oh, they’re very hard hit. They’re very hard hit. In a lot of ways, they’re hard hit. They’re hit in — with their economy, with their military, and with, obviously, the virus. They’re very hard hit. Well, they haven’t even asked us to do that, okay? You know what? They haven’t even asked us to do that. If they want to meet, we’d love to meet and we’d love to settle the whole thing out. But I doubt they’ll be — I think they love America. I think the Iranians love America. I think they’d love to be free. I think they’d love to have just some of the things that we have. You know, I remember Iran, many years ago — friends of mine were always in Iran. They were doing real estate deals in Iran. They were building beautiful buildings all over Iran. Apartment houses. It was — they were very successful. And then, one day, that came to an end. But you know what? The people of Iran, they remember that. It was a long time ago, but not so long ago. And they remember it. And I’ll tell you, they love America. They love what we stand for. And we’re not looking for cha- — we’re not looking for government takeover, government change. You know, this country has been through that many times. That doesn’t work. Well, what I did — yeah. What I did, as you know — — I put it out very publicly, with respect to Iran. I said if they need help with respect to the virus, we’d love to send — we have the greatest medical professionals in the world. We’d love to send them over. I’m not encouraging or discouraging. They’ve been a very hostile country. They made a deal that President Obama should have never made. It was a short-term deal giving them $150 billion, giving them $1.8 billion in cash. Green. Fill up this room five times. Look — No. Not at all. Nobody has even asked me about it. I have a moral responsibility to help them if they ask. If they — if they needed help, I would certainly consider different things. Well, that’s up to the United Nations. I’m talking about us. And what happens is, if they wanted help — because they have a very big case of virus. A very, very big case. It — one of the worst on Earth, if you believe what you’re reading. And I happen to believe what I see and what I know. And if they wanted help, we’d give them help. Yeah. You had one, in the back, please. Go ahead. Or they don’t exist. Or the sources don’t exist. They’re fake persons, okay? A lot of fake sources out there. They don’t exist. I read about it — for a long time, I’ve been reading. A lot of them — fakes sources. They don’t exist. Go ahead. Please. But, Deborah, aren’t you referring to just a few states? Because many of those states are dead flat. I mean, so — So, it’s hard to get — it’s hard to be — Again, so I look at the graphs all the time. And you have many, many — — flatliners. I call them “flatliners.” I’m amazed at them. And you have a couple that are up. It’s hard to blame the flatliners for not doing a good job. No, because I saw those pens going five minutes ago. They were so — they were thrilled. And the fact is — yes, we compare them to Italy. One place. But we have many places that are — — really doing great. And I think that’s what Deborah meant. She didn’t mean all of them. So when you write your story tomorrow, maybe you’ll write it correctly. She was talking about one state. And another state is, you know, having a hard time. It’s — and they’re closely associated. And, by the way, the people are doing a very good job, including the people that live there. But when Deborah was talking about Italy, she was talking about the one, and then the other was lower. And then you have mostly states that have been unbelievable. So she wasn’t talking about the average of everything; she was talking about an individual state, which is, I think, still better than Italy. Italy is having a hard time. By the way, Spain is having a hard time. France is having a hard time. But our states, generally speaking, it’s like lots of different countries all over. We have — many of those countries are doing a phenomenal job. They’re really flat. And I think that’s what you meant. I don’t know. I don’t want to — I don’t want to speak for — but I thought — that’s what I understood she meant. Yeah, please. Because some states, they stay in better. They’re not touching. They’re not — whatever it is. They’re not going out. They’re not in groups. And some states are not probably as good, or for whatever reason. Or they also live a lot closer. You know, New York is very dense. And, you know, California is pretty dense too. And they’ve got a very good record going so far. We hope it doesn’t spike up, but it’s very flat. We have states that are doing incredibly well. I mean, when I looked at some of them, I looked at some states that I would have thought maybe wouldn’t have done as well, and they’re really flatlined. Hope they stay that way. I hope they stay that way. Say it, Jeff. I want them — yeah, that’s what I’m saying. No, no, no. But when Deborah mentioned about Italy and our country, she wasn’t referring to our country; she was referring to one state. Okay. So my understanding — I’m going to let her say it. But I think that everybody would have to be thrilled with the way most states are doing. Thrilled. The flat-line — the flat-line states — states that have almost no bump. I mean, I would think. Now, then you have others where, for whatever reason, they’re higher. That’s different. But you can’t condemn people living in a flatliner with people living in something where there’s the big bump or the bigger bump or more akin to Italy, where they have some very unique problems. In all fairness to Italy, they have some very unique problems. But if you’d like to come up and — A lot of them. Yeah. That’s exactly — I think that’s perfect. So I just want to say — look, many states have started low and slow, and then they stayed at a good level. Some really stayed at a great level. Some — Louisiana, as an example: It was low and slow and they were looking great. I was watching it because, you know, it’s kind of a place people go to with Mardi Gras — which, sort of, is an interesting point, because after Mardi Gras, it was low, and then all of a sudden it went up very rapidly. And now it’s one of our true hotspots, right? Certain areas of Michigan — Detroit was — it looked like it was doing pretty good, and then all of a sudden it went up. So you have that too. But I’ll tell you what: We have states that have been really incredible in the fact that they have kept so — so low. They have not — you haven’t seen the bump, and I hope you don’t. I hope you don’t. And you have a couple that, for a lot of different reasons — and that’s not to blame anybody, but they are at a higher level. But very few. I think, Deborah — I mean, I may say: I think most people have actually followed the presidential — you can call them whatever you want. I would never use the word “dictates” because if I used that word, I would be in such trouble. In fact, you’ll put me in trouble just that I even mentioned the thought of it. Okay? But we make a recommendation. And I think they’ve done a good job, and maybe they started a little later, but maybe they’re also more difficult states. But we’ve done, I think, on average, really phenomenally as a country. I think we’ve done phenomenally. Because when you looked at that graph the other day — I don’t know if you saw it; I assume you saw it. Everybody in the world saw it. But you look at all those lines on the bottom — one color after another, all different, representing different states — it’s all crowded at the bottom. And then you had two that were up. But you had — I don’t know, almost every one of them was down low. Very low. So there were a lot of people listening. And I just did — I want to be clear because I don’t need headlines tomorrow, and neither does the country, because I don’t want this country working so hard and then have press that is, in this case, maybe misinterpret something. Because I might have — I might have — when I heard it, I was surprised at first too, but I understood what Deborah meant. But I think it’s very important — because I think it’s very important for you to be accurate. One other thing. Just a quick thing. So, what I found is when governors call me — I mean, I think in every case, they’ve always been so nice. So nice. And I’ve seen them and heard them say, “Thank you very much. You have done a great job.” “A fantastic job,” in one case. “Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.” Then I’ll see the governor, usually of the opposite party. In almost all cases, except maybe one — but in almost all cases, they’re very generous, they’re very nice. They thank me. Everything is great. We’re doing a great job. And then I’ll see them on television, and just like a different person. And I realized there are some people, because of politics, that if they say, “We want 1,000 ventilators,” and I’ll say, “No, Jim, I want to give you 5,000 ventilators,” they’ll say, “Thank you. You are the greatest President that’s ever lived.” And then, I’ll see them quoted in a paper or see them on a show, and they’ll say, “The President didn’t come through for me. I’m very disappointed in the President.” And we have a lot of that. They’re very happy when they talk to me, and then I see them. But there are some people, if they asked for 500 of something, and if I gave them 5,000, they will say — you’ll say, “How’s the President doing?” “Well, we don’t like the job.” To my face, they’re very nice, but then sometimes — I guess, they assume I don’t watch them or something, but I watch very closely. Yeah, please. Well, it’s vulnerable in that it’s close together, really. I — I can’t tell you about age, but a lot of young people in prison. Some people — some states — I have not done that at all, but some states are letting people out of prison. Some people are getting out that are very serious criminals, in some states. And I don’t like that. I don’t like it. But it’s a city or state thing in certain cases, as you know. I think maybe Philadelphia comes to mind. So we’ll see. You have to see what what’s going on. And we don’t like it. The people don’t like it. And we’re looking in to see if I have the right to stop it in some cases, okay? Oh, I think it’s — I think they’re going through — I think it’s terrible. So, look, four weeks ago, we had the greatest economy in the history of the world. The greatest in the world — greatest in the history of the world. We had the most jobs ever in the history of the United States. Almost 160 million jobs, right? And then, one day, I get a call from Deborah, who’s fantastic, and from Dr. Fauci. And he said and she said, “We have a problem.” I said, “What’s the problem?” And they said, “We may have to close it up.” I said, “Close what up?” They said, “Close up the country.” And I said, “What’s that all about?” And we discussed today — and probably not since 1917; we came to that conclusion — and she is a fantastic person, a brilliant person, and this is what she knows. I said, “Has it ever been this bad?” And I think I can represent that you said “no.” And part of it — it’s a contagion. It’s so contagious. It’s like, if you sneeze, I probably get it. Whoever heard of a thing like that? Okay? And this very talented reporter is bailing out. Okay? He’s out of here. I don’t blame you. But it’s a very contagious thing, and — probably the likes of which we’ve never seen in terms of that. But 1917 — so that’s over 100 years ago, but that was — you know, it’s been written about many, many times. That was a horrible — whether it was 75 or 100 million people — I’ve heard from 50 to 75, I’ve heard 75 to 100 — but it was tens of millions of people. Now, we have the advantage of communication. This could have been just as bad. I mean, here we can read on the Internet. We can see what to do. We can have these meetings; they can watch on television, which they do. A lot of people are watching. A lot of people are watching. And they say, “Gee, social distancing.” But in 1917, they didn’t have that option. You know, they didn’t know what to do. They just noticed people were dying all over the place. Think of it: 75- to 100 million people died. A lot of people in this country died. I always — to me, it’s a great — it’s a great question: How come more people didn’t die in this country? And they say it actually started in this country and went to Europe. I mean, we lost a lot of people, but relatively, we lost very few compared to Europe. So this is a terrible thing that happened. And what’s happening now, with people and jobs — so think of the position I’m in. We have built all together, everybody — not me, everybody — the greatest economy in history. And all of a sudden, people come in that we respect and we know. And here’s the thing: They were right. Everybody questioned it for a while. Not everybody, but a good portion questioned it. They said, “Let’s keep it open. Let’s ride it.” If we did that — you saw the other graph. And whether it’s true or almost true or maybe not true enough — the number was 2.2 million people would have died. 2.2 million people would have died in a short period of time. In fact, the graph could have been even shorter. I always noticed that that horrible one — where it goes high — it actually comes down a little bit faster. It might have been over faster and you would have lost 2.2 million people. So they come in and they say, “We have to close up the country.” And I say, “You know what that does to this — to the fabric of this country, to people that had great jobs, great family, no problems with money?” Their 401 — everything is perfect, then all of a sudden, they go from that to having no job in one day. They never even thought of it. And then you see 6 million people unemployed. Unemployment numbers get released and you see 6 million people. And it’s an artificial closing. It’s not like we have a massive recession or worse. It’s artificial because we turned it off. Think of all we’re doing. We’re saying, “Don’t go to work and we’ll pay you.” Everything is the opposite. It was always, “Go to work and make a lot of money and do well, and — the American Dream.” Because of a hidden enemy, we’re saying, “Don’t go to work and we’re going to pay you.” Look at the money: $2 trillion. And we will probably do more. I think infrastructure would be a fantastic thing to do. You want to get the restaurants back? You give deductibility. You understand what that is. You give deductibility for businesses where they go and they use the restaurants. The restaurants will be bigger and better than they were before. You know, people don’t know: A lot of restaurants closed when they ended deductibility. And then they started doing well, but they had fewer restaurants. But the boom of the restaurants is when they had deductibility, where corporations could use them. So — and entertainment. That was a great thing. But they closed it, and then they closed it again. And it wasn’t the same. But if you want to get them back, you do that. But infrastructure: We borrow our money now at zero. You know, if were paying 5 percent, 4 percent, 3 percent, it’s a different ballgame. We’re borrowing — we can borrow long term for zero — literally zero; you know that — because we’re considered the safe investment. All over the world, they want money in the United States. That’s where they want the money. So I know better than anybody. I just — I know what they’re going through, and it’s horrible. But you know what I want to do? I want to be able to get them back fast. When this is over, it’s going to be a day we’re going to celebrate, because everyone is going to go to work and I think we’re going to have boom times. I think it’s going to be great. And we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned about borders. We’ve learned about reliance on other countries. We’ve learned so much — so much that I think we really have a chance to be bigger and better and stronger. And I think it’s going to come back very quickly, but first we have to defeat this enemy. So we will see you tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. So, America continues to wage all-out war to defeat the virus — this horrible, horrible virus. You see how terrible it is, especially when you look at the numbers from yesterday. And we explained why we’re extending our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread by 30 days. Together, we have the power to save countless lives. We’re attacking the virus on every front with social distancing, economic support for our workers, rapid medical intervention, and very serious innovation, and banning dangerous foreign travel that threatens the health of our people. And we did that early — far earlier than anyone would have thought and way ahead of anybody else. In this time of need, I know that every American will do their patriotic duty and help us to achieve a total victory. As governments and nations focus on the coronavirus, there’s a growing threat that cartels, criminals, terrorists, and other malign actors will try to exploit the situation for their own gain. And we must not let that happen. We will never let that happen. Today, the United States is launching enhanced counter-narcotics operations in the Western Hemisphere to protect the American people from the deadly scourge of illegal narcotics. We must not let the drug cartels exploit the pandemic to threaten American lives. In cooperation with the 22 partner nations, U.S. Southern Command will increase surveillance, disruption, and seizures of drug shipments and provide additional support for eradication efforts which are going on right now at a record pace. We’re deploying additional Navy destroyers, combat ships, aircraft, and helicopters; Coast Guard cutters; and Air Force surveillance aircraft, doubling our capabilities in the region. Very importantly, our forces are fully equipped with personnel protective equipment, and we’ve taken additional safety measures to ensure our troops remain healthy. Secretary Mark Esper, Attorney General Bill Barr, National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien will provide more details. In addition, I’m going to have General Milley, who has done an incredible job in so many ways, say a few words. And also with us: our Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Gilday, who you know — I think you know; and Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Schultz. So I’m going to ask Mark to start and then we can go. And after that, we’re going to take questions as it pertains to this. And then we’ll go onto phase two, which is the virus itself. Okay? Thank you, please. Mark. Thank you very much, General. Beautiful. Thank you. Bill. Okay. So do we have any questions on this? Because this group is going to go back to work. They’re going to leave. John, please. Well, for a long time, we’ve had a lot of drugs coming into our country. And it’s not that it’s increased, it’s prob- — we’ve probably got it down a little bit, but it’s still a tremendous number. Families are being ruined. Lives are being ruined. It’s an incredible thing, especially as you’re at this position. You would never believe it. I see things that nobody would believe. I see reports that nobody would believe. So I met with the group behind me, all of them, and we said, “What do you think we can do?” And they think they can interdict. They think we can stop it before it gets to the shores. And they’re coming from all over the place. And we have incredibly talented people. So I think I’m going to let Mark just give a little bit of an answer to that. But we just want to see if we can stop a big — a good percentage of the drugs coming into our country. And, you know, we didn’t do it for this reason, but it’ll also have an impact on the virus because we have people trying to get in. So not only drugs, but now we have a new phenomena. And that’s at least for the next hopefully short period of time — the virus. So we’ll be able to have an effect on that too. Please. That’s right. They were. Well, because we’re focused on so many other parts of the country, and even parts of the world. And, all of a sudden, areas where we — we had it clamped down pretty tight — in all fairness. You know, the wall is up to about 160 miles already. And any areas where we have that wall, it’s, for the most part, contiguous. We have fill-ins. But we’re up to 161 miles exactly. And any place where you have that wall, other than walking around it on the edges, it’s stopping everybody cold. I mean, we’re stopping — we’re — nobody has seen anything like it. That’s how good it works. And the other side knew it worked that well — everybody. Because everybody was for it five years ago. All of a sudden, they changed. It’s having a tremendous impact. But we are now focused on so many different things because of what’s happened, because of this horrible — I say it’s a horrible phenomena that now we’ve got to focus on drugs. And the drugs come in from different methods. And we have the best people at sea anywhere in the world, so we’ll have a tremendous impact on drugs. But one of the other things: We’ll also have an impact, we think on the — on the virus. Okay? Yeah. Please. We really don’t know. I mean, yeah — look, how do we know whether if they underreported or reported however they report? But we had a great call the other night. We’re working together on a lot of different things, including trade. They’re buying a lot. They’re spending a lot of money and they’re giving it to our farmers. They’re paying our farmers for the product. So, you know, we’re going to — we’re going to continue that along. John. Yeah. I know what you’re saying, but we just have information that they were planning something. And it’s very good information. It was led by Iran — not necessarily Iran, but by groups supported by Iran. But that, to me, is Iran. And we’re just saying, “Don’t do it. Don’t do it.” It would be a very bad thing for them if they did it. That was a very powerful response, by the way. That response knocked out five different places, but it also took out a lot of very bad people. Well, that was a very big response. You know, we knocked out a lot. We looked — they hit one site; we hit five big ones and ammunition sites. You saw the — you saw what happened. And I won’t say how many people were killed, but some bad people were killed. And a lot of them. That was a big response. But this response will be bigger if they do something. Yeah. You had one. Please. We have not received that. But their numbers seem to be a little bit on the light side. And I’m being nice when I say that, relative to what we witnessed and what was reported. But we discussed that with him — not so much the numbers, as what they did and how they’re doing. And we’re in constant communication with — I mean, I would say the biggest communication is myself and President Xi. The relationship is very good. We have — look, they’re spending — they will be spending, when things even out — this is obviously a little bit of a hurdle, what’s happened over the last month. But they’ll be spending $250 billion, buying our product: $50 billion to the farmers alone, $200 billion to other things. They never did that before. So we have a great trade deal. And we’d like to keep it, they’d like to keep it, and the relationship is good. As to whether or not their numbers are accurate, I’m not an accountant from China. No, because people just don’t know. People don’t know where did it come from. I think we all understand where it came from. And President Xi understands that. And we don’t have to make a big deal out of it. We didn’t like the fact that they said it came from our soldiers. And they haven’t pursued that. It was — and that was a mid-level person said that. That was not a high-level person, so I assume. I will always assume the best. I’ll assume the high-level people didn’t know about it. It was a foolish statement. So, look, the relationship with China is a good one, and my relationship with him is, you know, really good. Please. Yeah. Well, I don’t mind if they want it. Yeah. I view that as a positive, if they’re helping other countries. We have 151 countries right now that are under siege by the virus. Under siege. Some are doing really badly. You know, they don’t know about social distancing. These are countries that aren’t highly sophisticated. They don’t have great communication with the rest of the world. I mean, they don’t know the things that we’re doing and that some others are able to do. And if China can help them, I’m all for it. I’m for all of us helping everybody. We’re soon going to have more ventilators than we need. We’re building thousands of ventilators right now. Now, it takes a period of time to build them. And again, nobody could have known a thing like this could happen. We’re building thousands. We will fairly soon be at a point where we have far more than we can use, even after we stockpile for some future catastrophe, which we hope doesn’t happen. We’re going to be distributing them — the extras — around the world. We’ll go to Italy, we’ll go to France. It will go to Spain, which is, you know, very hard hit. No. No, truth whatsoever. No, we want — I would love China and other countries, if they have additional supplies, medical supplies, to give to other countries. A hundred and fifty-one — 151 — Why would I stop that? Wouldn’t that be terrible to stop it? No. Whatever we have, whatever we’ve committed to, we commit. But we also need a lot for ourselves, so we’re very focused on that until we get over this. So obviously, we’re not going to be shipping too much until — now, we do have excess of certain things, and we don’t have enough of others. I just had a great talk today with the — Doug McMillon, from Walmart. And I gave him a very, very big order to — for gowns, for protective gear for the doctors, for the nurses, for everything. And he’s actually very excited about it. He’s the biggest purchaser of this kind of thing. I mean, of anything probably in the world. And he is very excited about it. And he said, “What size?” I said, “It’s almost unlimited.” When you look at these hospitals, the amount that they order, you almost say, “How could they possibly use so much, whether it’s masks or the protective gear?” But we are supplying a tremendous amount, and we just ordered a lot from Walmart. And he’s taken this on personally. And I said, “Let it go ship — let it be shipped not to a warehouse, directly to the side of the hospital or wherever they need it,” because we save a lot of time when we do that. So Walmart, in addition to many other companies and people, is now involved at the highest level. Please. No, I don’t think we’re losing ground, but we don’t want to lose ground. That’s why we’re doing it. I don’t want to lose ground. That’s a big fight. I’ve seen many families where they’re wiped out because they lost a son or a daughter, or a husband or a wife, or whatever — or all of them. And we don’t want to lose ground. And we are heavily focused on the virus. Very heavily focused. And with this, we have never — after this goes into effect, which essentially is now, we will never have been so focused on drugs coming into our country as we are right now. And remember, as that wall gets bigger, that really helps us a lot. It really helps us a lot. Yeah, please. Many of the governments are, and Mexico, in particular, is. And Mexico, right now, has — we have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our southern border, keeping people out of our country. And we’re — very few people are coming into our country right now. And as we complete, again, the wall, in addition to the 27,000 soldiers, it’s — it’s a very — it’s a very tough place to come into. When I — when I took over, people were coming in and they were bringing whatever they wanted. They were bringing drugs of any type, and now it’s very hard for them. And it will get harder and harder. But the President of Mexico is a great guy who’s really helped us a lot: 27,000 soldiers — 27,000 Mexican soldiers. And you remember when I first took over, they had all of the caravans coming up with 10,000, 15,000 people in the caravans. They were marching through Mexico. That’s not happening anymore. Please, in the back. I cannot tell you that. I can — I know the answer to that. I believe I do. But I cannot tell you that. We have information that would lead us to believe something very powerfully, but I cannot tell you the answer to that. Yeah, please. Jeff. Yeah, sure. Sure. They’re taking precautions, and we are watching it very closely. And if something bad happens, it’s going to be very painful for the other side. They know about it, yeah. They know about it. Well, we’ll see. We’ll see what happens. But, you know, we’re down to a small force now. Over the years since I got — we’ve been bringing smaller and smaller. And we’re down right now to a small number, but we have very powerful airpower there. We have the big base, and — which will — you know, I mean, nobody can get near it. Nobody can even get near that. But we’ve really, largely, left. You know, we’ve taken tremendous amounts out and we’ve deployed them elsewhere, including bringing some back home. Yeah, I think it’s — it’s not tweeting. It’s called “social media.” It’s social media. It gets out. I have, you know, hundreds of millions of people. Number one on Facebook. Did you know I was number one on Facebook? I mean, I just found out I’m number one on Facebook. I thought that was very nice for whatever it means. No, it represents something. And when I can explain to people: Just don’t do it. You know, it’s going to be bad if you do it. It’s going to be really bad. And they don’t need to do it. They have enough problems. Iran has enough problems without doing that. But we’ve been pulling back very substantially over the last year, in Iraq. And so, you know, that’s the way it is. No. I’m just giving them a warning. It’s not a heads up. I’m giving them a warning. There’s a big difference. I’m saying: If you do anything to hurt our troops they’re going to — they’re going to pay a price. No, they did last time, you know, as per the question. They did last time. We didn’t make a big deal out of it, but we hit very, very hard five massive, major ammunition sites, and a lot of people went with it. A lot of bad people. A lot of enemy went with it. And we didn’t want to make a big deal out of it, but they paid a big price. They’ll pay a much bigger price this time if they do anything. Sure. And not too many people are going to be getting off at various ports anymore. Right? I think we — We probably have decided on that. Okay? Thank you. No — military people, from the ships. Yeah. It is — — because we’re sending it directly to hospitals. We don’t want it to come to the stockpile because then we have to take it after it arrives and bring it to various states and hospitals. One of the things — and again, we asked the state to do this as much as possible — many of the states have people that — whether it’s that or clothing; they make clothing — lots of clothing in many of the different states. We said, “See if you can get it directly from those manufacturers. Make a deal.” We’ll use the Purchase Act, if we have to, on them. If they won’t — by the way, so many people are — the spirit is incredible, what they’re doing. But we’ve asked states where they have large manufacturers of different types of equipment to use those local factories, those local plants, and have it made directly. Ship it right into the hospitals. We’re shipping things right in. We have, as you know, almost 10,000 ventilators, which we need for flexibility. It’s a lot. It sounds like a lot, but it’s not. Because, as you see on the board from yesterday, as this scourge, as this plague, as this virus moves — it moves very fast — and we don’t know yet whether we’re going to need it in Louisiana, in New York, you know, wherever it may be. So we’re ready for it. We’re totally ready for it. We’re going to be shipping out — we’ve already agreed to ship out over 1,000 today to different sites, different locations. But we have to have the flexibility of moving the ventilators to where — to where the virus is going. And we’ll be able to see that — you know, we’ll be able to see that from charts a couple of days in advance. So right now we have a nice pile of ventilators. We have a lot more coming in. We have a lot of — I think we have 11 companies that are making ventilators right now. Very good companies. And they’re making them — you know about Ford, you know about General Motors, but we have a lot of companies making the ventilators right now. So now, the question is — you know, when you make one, it doesn’t get made in 15 minutes. It’s not — a mask can go quickly; a ventilator takes time to build. It’s very, very — as we discussed, it’s complex, it’s big, it’s expensive — you know, et cetera. But we’ll be able to move. We have great flexibility. John? Yeah, I think if — does anybody have any other questions for this great group of brilliant people? Yes, please. And we’re looking at doing two additional brand-new hospital ships because these ships have really — I mean, they really struck a blow — a very positive blow for what they’re doing going into Los Angeles, going into New York. So we’re looking very seriously at building two additional ships of about the same size. It’ll either be — well, building. But we’re looking at building either two new ones or doing the renovation of another large ship. But this has really worked out well. So, probably two brand-new ones. Is this concerning the gentlemen, or do you want them — You don’t want them to get back to work and capture all those bad people? Go ahead. Sure. Go ahead. True. Yes, we are. In fact, certain hospitals — yeah, certain hosp- — it can move very quickly. He’s a very capable man. We’re ready to move very quickly. As an example, in Louisiana, they have a very big hospital, so we’re looking to move very quickly if we need them. You know, hopefully we won’t need them. We’re going to find out pretty soon. We’re only going to know when — at the time it happens. We prepare for the worst. We are preparing for the worst. Unfortunately, that’s the way we have to look at it. Well, as I understand, they’re not doing that on the ship. That’s the one thing they’re not doing, outside of the COVID-19. They’re not doing that. The birth of a baby — not being done on the ships. Good. Any other questions? Please, go ahead. One more. One more for this group I have right here please. And I happen to think they want to make a deal; they just don’t know, really, how to start. And they’ve been given some bad advice by former Secretary Kerry. It’s some very bad advice. And I really think they want to make a deal — which is the Logan Act, but we’d have to look at the Logan Act. All you have to do is take a look. I think they’ve been given very bad advice by Secretary Kerry. I think that — I think they’re dying to make a deal. Look, their country is in trouble. Their economics are shot. They’re in — they’ve got a lot of bad things going. I think they’d like to make a deal. They can get it settled very quickly. No nuclear weapons. No nuclear weapons. They can’t have nuclear weapons. It’s very simple. Okay, let’s let these folks get back to work. Is that okay? Thank you all very much. So, as we deploy our service members to combat both threats abroad, invisible enemy at home, earlier today I spoke to our nation’s incredible warriors and military families. Spent a long time on the phone with thousands and thousands of families that were hooked in. In order to stop the spread of the virus, some of these families have delayed planned moves to their next duty station. And in other cases, military families are also waiting longer to welcome home their heroes from deployment. There’s a tremendous burden to bear. And the families have been involved with us for so long, and they are incredible. Without the families, they couldn’t be the great service members that they turned out to be, and they understand that. And I must say, protecting our military families is our top priority. So they understand what they’re — what’s happening with respect to the virus — and they understand it well. They’ve been fantastic. As Commander-in-Chief, I’m deeply grateful for our service members, their spouses, and their children, whose love, devotion, and sacrifice keeps America strong. To make, procure, and deliver crucial medical supplies to our doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers, my administration is leveraging the might of American manufacturing, supply chains, and innovators across the industry and across every industry. And I just told you about Walmart and I could tell you about many more. Hanes is making protective gear and masks, and we’re making tremendous amounts of product. There’s never been anything like it. At the same time, I tell the governors, “Get it yourself, if you can, from your local companies and your local warehouses and factories. If you can do that, you should do that.” Because of the actions that we’ve taken under the Defense Production Act, manufacturers and suppliers are sharing with FEMA and HHS their planned orders and allocations to states and to hospitals all over the region. This enables FEMA and HHS to work closely with states, local governments, and private sector to allocate critical resources to highly impacted areas. Working together, we’re entirely focused on getting materials to the right place at the right time. So we want it to go directly to a hospital or directly to a certain state location, and ideally, not even hit the states’ warehouses. If we can avoid the warehouses, it’s even better because they go directly into a hospital. And one example of that is Ohio — the great state of Ohio. Senator Rob Portman called today and he asked for some help, and got us — did a tremendous job, along with Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio, to facilitate a donation of 2.2 million gowns. 2.2 million gowns. Think of what that is: 2.2 million to the Strategic National Stockpile from Ohio-based Cardinal Health. Cardinal Health, we appreciate it. And they’re making much more than that and different types of things. We’re profoundly grateful for their contribution to protect the lives and safety of our healthcare professionals. Cardinal has been working with us very well. FEMA and HHS formed a historic partnership with the private sector called “Project Airbridge” to bring supplies from other countries to the United States, including gloves, gowns, goggles, and masks. These supplies will soon be distributed around the country. We have large cargo planes coming in from various parts of the world. Every day, new planeloads are landing in cities such as New York, Miami, Chicago, Los Angeles. Additional flights have been scheduled, and we’re adding more and more. And they’re actually coming in ahead of schedule. A lot of these flights are coming in with a lot of material ahead of schedule. The amount of usage, the amount of need, is something that nobody has ever seen before. We are getting so much, but no matter how much we get, they seem to use it up very quickly. More than 17,000 National Guard personnel have now been activated all across our country. On Tuesday, the Vice President sent a letter to the governors, calling on them to have plans in place to use the National Guard to move medical supplies from warehouses to hospitals. So, a lot of times, we’ll deliver supplies to a warehouse in a state — someplace in New York or in New Jersey or in Connecticut or wherever it may be — and they’re having difficulty getting it moved. So what we’re doing, if we don’t bring it directly to the hospital, is we’ve authorized — it was a special authorization — the National Guard to go into that facility and to move it for the state. So the National Guard is moving a lot of this equipment and medical supplies into a hospital or into an area where it’s needed by the state. As I said yesterday, difficult days are ahead for our nation. We’re going to have a couple of weeks, starting pretty much now, but especially a few days from now, that are going to be horrific. But even in the most challenging of times, Americans do not despair. We do not give in to fear. We pull together, we persevere, and we overcome, and we win. This week, every American heart is joined with the people of New York as they continue to bear the brunt of the pandemic. To every New Yorker: Please know that we are by your side. I love New York. And every day, we will be with you. And it could very well be that others take over from New York. There are some areas, some hotspots in other states that are really exploding. Some, like Louisiana, were very late. And then, all of a sudden, it was like an explosion. In confronting this deadly plague, America is armed with capabilities never dreamed of in past centuries. If you look at 1917, the pandemic, it was something. It ravaged parts of this country but ravaged Europe. Ravaged. They say 75- to 100 million — some people say 50- to 75 million people died. Think of that. And that was a long time ago, over 100 years ago. Very, very — many books written about the 1917, 1918 pandemic. Our doctors are pouring over the virus genetic code, designing potential therapies and vaccines. Our planes are airlifting supplies from every corner of the Earth. We’re watching other countries and they’re watching us to see whether or not — and who’s going to be the first to come up with a cure or a remedy of some kind or even a help, if it can help — and of course, a vaccine. We’re looking very strongly for a vaccine. Johnson & Johnson is doing well, and other companies are doing very well. But our most powerful asset, our greatest weapon in this effort is the spirit of our people. And we want to keep away, keep a distance. Keep away. If you don’t get it — it solves a lot of problems. If you don’t get it — and you can’t get it if you keep the distance. American spirit is unyielding, unwavering, and unbreakable. It’s incredible. I’ve never seen anything like it — the way the people have pulled together, the unity of this country. So, together, we’re going to win this war, and the sooner we do, the sooner we can begin to rebuild. And we’re ready to rebound and return to normal lives. We went from the best economy in the history of the world, the best economy that this country has ever seen — the best employment numbers we’ve ever had; 160 million people working, almost; 160 million — to a point where the professionals came to me and they say, “Sir, you’re going to have to shut the country down.” I said, “What does that mean?” They said, “Sir, you’re going to have to shut it down.” And we’re going to build it up, and I think we’re going to build it up fast. I think we’re going to have a tremendous rebound. There’s a great energy and a great pent-up demand. And as you know, phase three was terrific, and phase four — what passed in Congress — and phase four, if that happens, will be great. I already proposed a — paying almost zero interest on bonds, and I proposed a $2 trillion infrastructure plan, which would not only fix our roads and highways and bridges and tunnels and other things, but will also do something very good. It’s called “jobs.” I’m also asking that restaurants and entertainment facilities go back to the old deductibility from corporations where corporations can buy, because otherwise a lot of these restaurants are going to have a hard time reopening. It takes a long time. And they’re going to have a hard time reopening. So we’re asking for going back to deductibility, where corporations can buy and corporations can go out to lunch, and they pay and they get a deduction on what they eat, they get a deduction on the bill, and same with the entertainment. It’s going to bring a lot of people back. I think it’ll open up the restaurant business. People forget that, years ago, they had that. And when they got rid of it, when they ended it for whatever reason — but they ended it — many, many restaurants went out of business, many entertainment-type facilities went out of business. And now is a great time to bring it back. It was — it was a terrible time for that business after they ended it. But this is a great time to bring it back. It’ll keep our restaurants going. In fact, I think the restaurant business will be actually bigger and better than it is right now. So we’re also talking about that. And now what we’ll do is we’ll take some questions. And I see Mike is back with some of the folks. That’s great. Dr. Fauci. And we will — oh, how are you? Thank you, Deborah. So we’ll take some questions, and we make progress day by day. Please. Yeah. I think the severity. I think also in looking at the way the contagion — it is so contagious. Nobody has ever seen anything like this, where large groups of people, all of a sudden, just by being in the presence of somebody, have it. The flu has never been like that. And there is — flu is contagious but nothing like we’ve ever seen here. Also, the violence of it. If it hits the right person — and you know what those stats are — if it hits the right person, that person is in deep trouble. And my friend was the right person. Yeah, well, not a turning point. No. Before that, I knew how — because I’m seeing numbers and I’m seeing statistics that are, you know, not exactly very good. So — but — but it hit him very hard. He’s strong — a very strong kind of a guy. But he’s older. He’s heavier. And he’s sort of central casting for what we’re talking about, and it hit him very hard. I’ve never seen anything like it. Yeah, John? Yeah. Well, we’re thinking about doing that. At the same time, we just — you know, to start these airlines and to start this whole thing over again is very tough, John. It’s very tough. And you have them going, in some cases, from hotspot to hotspot. If you notice, they’re usually hotspot to hotspot. Very few flights. New York to Miami. And — but we’re thinking — we’re certainly looking at it. But once you do that, you really are — you really are clamping down on an industry that is desperately needed. Well, we’re going to — Yeah. That is a calculation that we’re looking at right now. We’re looking at it very strongly. Please. Yeah. Sure. Because states are different. States are different. And I understand that the governor of Florida — great governor, Ron DeSantis — issued one today. And that’s good. That’s great. But there are some states that are different. There are some states that don’t have much of a problem. There are some — well, they don’t have the problem. They don’t have thousands of people that are positive, or thousands of people that even think they might have it — or hundreds of people, in some cases. So you have to look — you have to look at states. You have to give a little bit of flexibility. I mean, if a state in the Midwest, or if Alaska, as an example, doesn’t have a problem, it’s awfully tough to say, “Close it down.” So we have to have a little bit of flexibility. Look, we’re helping governors. We’re really here to help governors. They’re the frontline of attack, and that includes in purchasing, by the way. We’re here and we’re backing them up. And there’s never been a backup like we’ve given them. We’ve given them billions of dollars’ worth of things — medical supplies and ventilators; thousands and thousands of ventilators. We have thousands under construction right now. We have thousands ready to go in case they need it. There’s never been anything like this. I mean, we’ve — they’ve done really — the people have done incredibly. We’re building hospitals all over the country. We’re building hospitals right now at a rate that has never even been contemplated before. They’re mobile hospitals, but they’re really not mobile. I mean, they’re incredible structures. But we’re building many hospitals: Louisiana, New Jersey, New York. We just finished a massive hospital complex. And we also have medical centers built in New York. I mean, we’re building hospitals at the rate that this country has never done before. And hopefully it’s all going to work out. Please, go ahead. Well, we’re looking at the whole thing, because we’re getting into a position now where we want to do that. We have to do that. And so we’re looking at the whole thing. Yes. And we may have — we may have some recommendations. Yeah. It’s like, from 1950, these oil prices. And that’s when they had big dollars — big, beautiful dollars. Well, look, we have a great oil industry, and the oil industry is being ravaged. And, as you know, Russia — and I spoke to President Putin; we had a great call. Russia, Saudi Arabia — I spoke with the Crown Prince; we had a great call. But I think that they will work it out over the next few days. If you ask me, I think it’s just — it’s too simple not to be able to. They both know what they have to do. So I think — I have confidence in both that they’ll be able to work it out. But it’s — it has ravaged an industry worldwide, not here. I mean, worldwide, the oil industry has been ravaged. So there was a lot of oil production to start off with. And then, on top of it, it got hit with the virus, and business went down 35, 40 percent. So that business is a tough one. And, you know, they have ships all over the sea. I told you yesterday — all over the sea. Massive tankers that they’re using for storage. They go out and they just sit there. There’s no place to go. They have massive amounts. Now, gasoline is going to be 99 cents a gallon and less. You know that. That’s already starting. It’s popping up. Ninety-nine cents. So that’s like giving a massive tax cut to people of our country. When we try and get the airlines going if — if fuel is costing much less, it helps with getting the airlines, which is always a tough business. Always has been a tough business. But with that being said, look, I want to get that industry back where it was. We were doing records in that industry also. We want to get it back to where it was. So I think that Saudi Arabia, Russia, they’re negotiating. They’re talking. And I think they’ll come up with something. I’m going to meet with the oil companies on Friday. I’m going to meet with independent oil producers also on Friday or Saturday, maybe Sunday. But we’re having a lot of meetings on it. I think I know what to do to solve it. But if — if they’re unable to solve it, then I think I know what to do to solve it. We won’t mention it now, but it’s tough. I think I know what to do to solve it. We don’t want to lose our great oil companies. You know, we’re the number one producer of oil in the world. And a month ago, when you said that, it was great. Today, when you say it, it’s not so meaningful. But I do believe there’s a way that that can be solved or pretty well solved. And I’d rather not do that. I think that Russia and Saudi Arabia, at some point, are going to make a deal in the not-too-distant future because it’s very bad for Russia. It’s very bad for Saudi Arabia. It’s very bad. I mean, it’s bad for both, so I think they’re going to make a deal. You know, the free market is a wonderful thing. It’s amazing how it can work. But I think they’re going to make a deal. Yeah. Yeah, please. In the back. Well, you know, you’re saying “undocumented,” meaning they came in illegally. And a lot of people would say we have a lot of citizens right now that won’t be working. So, what are you going to do? It’s a tough thing. It’s a very terrible — it’s a very sad question, I must be honest with you. But they came in illegally. And we have a lot of people that are citizens of our country that won’t be able to have jobs. Now, I do think once we get rid of the virus, I think we’re going to have a boom economy. I think it’s going to go up rather quickly. Maybe very quickly. And maybe slowly. But it’s going to go up, and it’ll all come back. And I think it’s actually going to come back stronger than what it was because of the stimulus. But it’s a — it’s a really sad situation, and we are working on it. I will tell you — I’m not going to give you a hard and fast answer because I just want to tell you, it’s something I think about and it’s something we’re working on. Please. Go ahead. And, Tony, how are they — how are they doing with the vaccines, Tony? He doesn’t need security. Everybody loves him. Besides, they’d be in big trouble if they ever attacked. You know, he was a great basketball player. Did anybody know that? He was a little on the short side for the NBA, but he was talented. And he — he won a game. I read the story. He won a game that was unwinnable against a great team. And his whole team said, “We can’t beat this team.” And he went in and they won the game. Right? That was a couple of years ago, but — The head never changes. The attitude never changes. Yes, please. He does. Deborah — yes — yes, go ahead. Yeah, please. He did. He spoke to me this morning. That, I don’t know. He spoke to me this morning. He knows what to do. Very good judgment. Who can — who can? I didn’t speak to him about it, but he did speak to me this morning. We talked about it. Please. I don’t know. I’d have to look at what he did. I like it. I like it. Well, I think it’s something we’re discussing in terms of bonus or bonus pay. It doesn’t have to be called “hazard pay.” It can be called — Hey, look, I watch those people go into hospitals that — I know; I talked about one of them, right? But I watched them walk into those hospitals, and they walk in — men, women, young, middle aged, not so many older ones. And I watch — I watched them. They’re almost like — and I think I can take the word “almost” out. They’re like warriors. They’re going in. People are cheering. Where there’s a building across the street, the people are screaming, they’re clapping, they’re –they’re like heroes. No, no, I will tell you, I think it’s incredible. They’re like — they’re like warriors. They’re like soldiers. And we’re going to — we’re going to be doing something for them. So whether it’s bonus — because, you know, we’re hopefully going to be over this relatively quickly. It’s going to be vicious for a period of time, but hopefully we’re going to be over this. You have a lot of questions today. Look at you. Do you know this young lady behind you? That’s good. That’s a good idea. That’s good for a marriage. Right. I’ll tell you. Mike? Okay. They took that up under the task force, and maybe, Mike, you want to say a few word about this — words about that? John, I think this: I think it’s a very fair question though, and it’s something we’re really going to look at because it doesn’t seem fair. If you have it, you have a big advantage. And at certain income level you do. I think it’s one of the greatest answers I’ve ever heard, because Mike was able to speak for five minutes and not even touch your question. So, I said — I said, that’s what you call a great professional. But let me just tell you, you really are — it’s really a fair question and it’s something we’re looking at. Yeah, I know. We’ll look. Right. They’re a certain group. And it’s a pretty big group. We’re looking at it. Yeah. We are — I haven’t been up there yet though, you know. The other people have been talking about it. And they haven’t spoken — But they’re thinking about it. They’re talking about it. I know, but they’re talking about it in 2020 election, too. And nobody has gotten to it. Nobody has talked about at all. I think we will, yeah. I think we’re going to get to it. I think we’re going to get to it. I don’t think the other group will get to it. They haven’t even spoken about it. And it’s a big group of people. No, I’m not committing. But it’s something we’re going to look at. I can’t commit. I have to get approval from it. I have thing called “Congress.” But it’s something we’re going to look at. And we have been looking at it. Go ahead. If there is a phase four, but we’re certainly looking at certain things. We want to help restaurants, entertainment. And we want to help — because it’s jobs. Not that restaurants — it’s jobs; tremendous amounts of jobs. So we’re looking at that. We’re looking at infrastructure. I mean, we — think of it: We will have spent $8 trillion. And, you know, it’s way back. We’re way pulled back. But we will have spent $8 trillion in the Middle East, and yet our roads are in bad shape; our bridges, our tunnels in bad shape. And we’re going to be the talk of the world again soon. But we want 2 trillion. We will have spent in the Middle East — and all we got out of it was death and cost. But all we got out of it was death. Millions of people. You have to look at the other side too. Millions and millions of people killed. Our great soldiers — thousands killed; so many wounded, hurt. And yet, when we want to go and fix a road someplace, we want to do what we want to do in our country — no, it’s time that we spend money on our country. That’s what we’re going to do. It’s time that we start spending on our roads and our bridges and our schools, and all of the things that we’re supposed to be spending on. And people are finally getting used to it. And you could look at all of what we’ve done in the Middle East, way back in so many different places — way back in other countries too, by the way. And I’ve gone to other countries that are very rich. I said, “I’m sorry, you’re going to have to reimburse us for our costs.” They don’t even want to — know what I’m talking about. It takes them 20 minutes to figure it out, because nobody has ever asked them to do that. And they’re doing it. They’re doing it. And they have no choice. They have to do it. So, it’s time that we start spending on the USA. Okay, please. And many countries all over the world want to know whether or not they can use, especially, our new test that we — that was just developed by Abbott, which is almost instantaneous, which is going to be great. And remember this: We inherited — the word is we inherited bad tests. We really inherited bad tests. These are horrible tests. And it was broken. It was all broken. And we fixed it. And we’re doing millions of tests. Sometimes, we send out a test and it’s not used. In many cases, it wasn’t used. But we worked with the states and the testing has been pretty amazing, especially considering the fact that we inherited a very broken system. Jeff? I am looking at hotspots. I am looking where flights are going into hotspots. Some of those — some of those flights I didn’t like from the beginning. But closing up every single flight on every single airline, that’s a very — very, very rough decision, but we are thinking about hotspots, where you go from spot to spot, both hot. And we’ll let you know fairly soon. A similar thing. We have trains going back and forth. And people don’t think of trains, but we do a lot of transportation business. It’s a very big decision to do that. And we’re pretty late in the process from the standpoint that this is starting — you’re going to start seeing — I think, over the next couple of weeks, you’re going to start to see us hit a top and start coming down. So we’ll make those decisions. Those are very, very — those are very, very big decisions, from the standpoint of — of the future of our country, in a way — in the future of our country. We have to get our country back, we have to start moving again, we have to start working again. Now, they’re doing tests on airlines — very strong tests — for getting on, getting off. They’re doing tests on trains — getting on, getting off. But when you start closing up entire transportation systems and then opening them up, that’s a very tough thing to do. Please, go ahead. Re-use. I love the sterilization of the mask. So, Ohio company — you can sterilize a — the N95. You can — you can sterilize that mask for up to 20 times. Think of that: up to 20 times. We’re throwing them out and they’re very expensive masks. They’re throwing them out. And I kept saying — one of the first questions I asked to Dr. Fauci, I said, “Why aren’t they sterilizing or cleaning the mask?” Because I didn’t — you know, it wasn’t my thing exactly when we first heard about this. Nobody else knew it either. And now we have a company and, I guess, a number of companies — one in Ohio, a great one — that makes equipment where you can sterilize a mask up to 20 times, which is fantastic. Okay? I — I don’t believe — look, this is a big things. A lot of people don’t like it. Some people don’t like it because you’re taking it away from the medical professional. Some people don’t like it for other reasons. I don’t see where it hurts. And it doesn’t have to be a mask; it can be a scarf. A scarf is highly recommended by the professionals. I don’t see where it hurts. I think if — frankly, if people wanted to do it — we don’t want to do anything that’s going to take masks. You’re talking about a tremendous amount of masks when you do that. We don’t want to take them away from our medical professionals, but I certainly don’t see it hurting. But what I do see people doing now is using scarves. And I think, in a certain way, depending on the fabric — I think, in a certain way, a scarf is better. It’s actually better. Yeah, please. You didn’t — you didn’t get — go ahead. Yeah. Well, my biggest disappointment is that churches can’t meet in a time of need. You know, this is really a great time for churches to be together, for people to get together on a Sunday or whenever — any day and meet. And yet, if you do that, if you do it close, you’re really giving this invisible enemy a very big advantage. So, it’s — it’s the biggest — I think the single biggest disappointment is you can’t — one of the reasons I said, “Wouldn’t it be great just to — to pick a date?” As you know, I called it “aspirational” — an aspirational date would be Easter. And I will tell you, it’s a — it’s very, very disappointing. But again, you get too close, and if somebody is sick, you’re going to probably catch it. So you have to be very careful. Sleepy Joe. Did he write the statement or did some PR person write it? Good. For a change. That’s okay. Sure. Oh, absolutely. I’d like to — I’d like to speak to him. Sure. I’d like to — I’d be — he should be able to — I — I always found him to be a nice guy. I don’t know him very well, frankly, but I think he’s probably a nice guy. No, if he’d like to call, I’d absolutely take his call. Okay? You could tell him. All right? Well — and no ammunition. And maybe no ammunition. We didn’t do that. That turned out to be a false story. Now you’re starting to go — What? Are you working for CNN? I thought you were with Fox. Fox isn’t so easy either, don’t kid yourself. What you just said is a false story. This doctor knows it better than anybody. No, but you shouldn’t be repeating a story that you know is false. All right, who — who’s next? Please go ahead, in the back. You didn’t get any. It’s very sad what’s happening in Iran. Well, look, we have to talk to them. I think we could work out a deal with Iran very quickly. All they have to do is call. I just think that, you know, they’re proud people, and the leadership is proud. They’re proud like all of us. We’re proud. You people are proud. They’re having a hard time picking up the phone, or they’re having a hard time setting up the meeting, but they could fix their country pretty easily. And we don’t want hostility, but if they are hostile to us, they’re going to regret it like they’ve never regretted anything before, as per today’s statement. But all they have to do is call or have somebody call. You know, there are channels where we can deal very easily. Again, I think that John Kerry did a tremendous disservice. I think he violated the Logan Act, 100 percent. That’s what I think. And I think it made it tough for them, because they were dealing with them for years. It was a terrible deal. All of that money — $150 billion, plus cash. Plus cash? Planeloads of cash for a deal that was no good. And it was short-term. Essentially, it was a short-term deal. Who makes a deal for that kind of money? And $1.8 billion in cash. I don’t even know what that would look like. That would be — this room would have to be filled up five times with hundred-dollar bills, okay? Who — who makes a deal like this? And then, on top of it, the deal is no good. All right, how about one or two more? About Mexican violence? Oh. Well, it could be. It’s another cost of — of not getting our country working. I mean, people are — now some people are getting along great. I’ve also had the oppo- — the exact opposite question. People — families are coming together. They’re actually coming together. They haven’t talked for a long time and, now, all of a sudden, they’re talking again; they’re loving each other. So I’ve heard that too, but I’ve also have heard domestic violence much — you know, at a higher level. And drug use, because of — in this case, they lose their jobs. They had a great job, they had a great life, they have a great family. All of a sudden, a husband is told that he doesn’t have a job anymore and he’s got no money. And that brings drugs into it, that brings suicide into it. It’s a terrible thing. We have to get our country going again. We did the right thing. We had no choice. We did the right thing. Other countries tried to use the herd — or the herd mentality. It’s just, you know, something that doesn’t work. If you look at — I mean, just to say, I heard Sweden gave it a shot, and they went — they saw things that were really frightening and they went immediately to shutting down the country. We did the right thing and we did it early. We did it early. And we stopped other people from coming into our country early. But — but, no, that’s a cost. That’s a — I’ve been talking about that. People will say, “What are you talking about?” But you will have — you’ll have that, you’ll have domestic violence, you have violence, you’ll have suicide, you’ll have drug addiction. A lot of people are going to be lost. We want to get this open as soon as we can. I mean, I’ll be the happiest person — so will you, everyone in this room — happy when we get the word that this is the time. And we have our common sense, and they’ll give me a decision or they’ll be making certain statements and I’ll — I think I’ll know how to interpret those statements very well. I’ll be with Mike. I’ll be with the task force. I’ll be with a lot of very talented people, including the two people onstage with us. But, I look forward — that’ll be a great day. That’ll be a great day. All right. How about one more, please? Sure. Chad, please. While you’re up, could you talk about how tight that southern border is right now? But I am glad you asked that question because we want the farmers — they’ve had this for years. We want the farmers to be able to get the people that have been working those farms for years or we’re not going to have farms. So they’re going to come in and they’re going to be given a certain pass. And we’re going to check them very, very closely, especially over the next month. Because remember, after a month or so — I think once this passes, we’re not going to have to be, hopefully, worried too much about the virus. But we want them to come in. We’re not closing the border so that we can’t get any of those people to come in. They’ve been there for years and years, and I’ve given the commitment to the farmers: They’re going to continue to come. Or we’re not going to have any farmers. Okay? Yeah. One more question. Who are you with, by the way? Boy. Amazing. Okay. Who else, please? We’re looking at the two ships. Yeah, we have — We have Canada notified. A lot of Canadians, a lot of British on the ship. And they’re coming to take the people that are on the ship back to their homeland. Canada is coming. The UK is coming. And we have a lot of — and we have Americans. We have some people that are quite sick and we’re taking care of — that I’m speaking with the governor about that a lot. And it’s a tough situation. It’s a tough situation. You know, I — you can understand. You have people that are sick on those ships, and states don’t want to take. They have enough problems right now. They don’t want to take them, but we have to, from a humane standpoint. We don’t have a choice. It’s like, I don’t want to do that, but we have to. People are dying. We’re going to do something. We’re going to do something. At a minimum, we’re sending medical teams onboard the ships. We’re taking the Canadians off and giving them to Canadian authorities. They’re going to bring them back home. The same thing with the UK. But we have to help the people. They’re — they’re in big trouble no matter where — no matter where they’re from. Happen to be Americans — largely Americans. But whether they were or not — I mean, they’re dying. So we have to do something. And — and the governor knows that too. Well, we’re sending a lot of them home. Yeah, we’re sending a lot of them home to their countries, but we’ll be doing something and we’ll be announcing it. You’ll see what we’re doing. But we’re also putting medical staff onto the ships so that we can — we have to take care of the people. No, you won’t get chewed out. You know that. I had heard that. Now, I don’t know. Do you know that answer, Mike? It sounds like it. Yeah, I mean, we’ll get — We can get back — yeah, it’s being — it’s a process that they’re working on. We’ll get back to you as soon as we find out. All right, one more, please. I did. I spoke to him. Of course. He’s great. He’s a great guy and he’s doing a wonderful job. From Brazil. Spoke to him this morning. And just a very complimentary call. He’s working very hard. He’s got a problem with a virus — got a big problem. And he’s — we talked about it today at length. We had a call this morning. And Brazil is shut down, as you know. They weren’t going to shut it down, but they had to. So Brazil is shut down. The world is shut down. Nobody has ever seen anything like this. The entire world is shut down. You go from having the most powerful economy in the world, and from other countries that are doing well, to being everything is shut down. It’s very sad, but we’re going to get it going. And we’re going to be stronger than ever. I really believe that. We’re going to be stronger. We’re going to have a big bounce — a very big bounce when this has gone. And I just want to thank the American people. I want to thank these great professionals. And I want to thank the media, because really, for the most part, that media has been very fair. Thank you very much, everybody. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Very comfortable here. A lot of room. And we appreciate you being here. Yesterday I announced that we would be extending our social distance guidelines through the end of April. This is based on modeling that shows the peak in fatalities will not arrive for another two weeks. The same modeling also shows that, by very vigorously following these guidelines, we could save more than 1 million American lives. Think of that: 1 million American lives. Our future is in our own hands, and the choices and sacrifices we make will determine the fate of this virus and, really, the fate of our victory. We will have a great victory. We have no other choice. Every one of us has a role to play in winning this war. Every citizen, family, and business can make the difference in stopping the virus. This is our shared patriotic duty. Challenging times are ahead for the next 30 days, and this is a very vital 30 days. We’re sort of putting it all on the line, this 30 days. So important because we have to get back. But the more we dedicate ourselves today, the more quickly we will emerge on the other side of the crisis. And that’s the time we’re waiting for. The more we commit ourselves now, the sooner we can win the fight and return to our lives. And they will be great lives — maybe better than ever. Today we reached a historic milestone in our war against the coronavirus. Over 1 million Americans have now been tested — more than any other country, by far; not even close — and tested accurately. And I think what I’d like to do is ask Secretary Azar, who’s done a fantastic job, to come up and just say a few words about the fact that we reached substantially now more than 1 million tests. Please. Thank you, Alex. Thank you very much. Thank you. I’d like to ask Dr. Hahn to come up — FDA — because we have some really good stuff. First of all, the numbers have been incredible on testing, but in the days ahead, we’re going to go even faster. And we have something from Abbott Labs, which is right here, and that’s a five-minute test, highly accurate. And I maybe can show that as we listen to our FDA Commissioner — the job he’s done in the approval process. We talked about the chloroquine and the hydroxychloroquine just now. I thought that I’d mention it, but Alex has already done that, but we have that now under test with 1,100 people in New York. And it was only the fast approval by FDA that allowed us to do that. It was a really rapid approval. And, Doctor, please say a few words. And this is the first one on the line of the five-minute test from Abbott. Thank you, Doctor. Great job too. Really great job. Thank you, Steve. So, the pharmaceutical company, Sandoz, has been working with us very closely. And as Alex mentioned a little bit, 30 million doses of the hydroxychloroquine to the United States government has been given. And Bayer has donated 1 million doses of the chloroquine, which will soon be distributed to states and state health officials around the country. Teva Pharmaceuticals is also donating 6 million doses of hydroxychloroquine to U.S. hospitals. That’s 6 million doses. So the private sector, as you’d say, Steve, has been amazing, what’s happened. Really amazing. And we’re going to introduce you to some of the greatest business executives in the world today, no matter where you go, and they’re going to say a little bit about what they’re doing. And then we have so many more. The FDA has also authorized the — Battelle’s N95 respirator mask sterilization kits. It’s an incredible thing. I’ve been asking, “Why are we throwing these masks away?” You look at some of these masks and they’re significant pieces of equipment. And I say, “How come you throw them away? Why aren’t they using sterilization techniques?” And I got a call from Mike DeWine, the governor of Ohio — and he’s a tremendous guy, a tremendous governor — and he said, “We have a company named Battelle, and they’re having a hard time getting approval from the FDA.” And I called up Dr. Hahn, and within a very short period of time, they got the approval. Steve, we really appreciate it. I want to thank Mike and I want to thank Steve. And they’re going to be able — each machine now can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. Now, think of that. Each machine can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. It’ll be just like a new one. It can go up to about 20 times for each mask. So each mask can go through this process 20 times. And they have two in Ohio, one in New York, and one will soon be shipped to Seattle, Washington, and also to Washington, D.C. So that’s going to make a tremendous difference on the masks. This morning, I spoke to our nation’s governors to help each state get the medical supplies they need. And yesterday, Vice President Mike Pence asked our nation’s hospitals to begin reporting total bed capacity, ICU bed capacity, ventilator capacity, and vital medical supply levels on a daily basis. And, Mike, thank you for the great job. Thank you very much. In New York, the 2,900-bed hospital under construction, which is now completed — they completed it in three days; you might say three and a half days — at the Javits Center will be completed today. Will be — and when you look — so they’re going up. I think we’re going to be adding some more beds, which will be completed today. And we’ve opened up — whoops, there goes our box. And my hair is blowing around, and it’s mine. The one thing you can’t get away with. If it’s not yours, you got a problem, if you’re President. And nearly 3,000 medical beds will become operational. The U.S. Navy ship Comfort also arrived today, equipped with 12 operating rooms and 1,000 hospital beds. Work has begun on additional temporary hospital sites, including a 600-bed capacity nursing home facility in Brooklyn, and numerous floors of a high-rise building on Wall Street. So it’s been really pretty amazing what they’ve done, and the Army Corps of Engineers, what they’ve done. They’ve done — they just completed — think of it — a 2,900-bed hospital in New York in just about three days, maybe four days. And the whole city is talking about it. On top of that, we floated in a great ship, which is going to be 1,000 rooms, which is being used for patients outside of what we’re focused on. And that will free up a lot of rooms for what we’re focused on. So, it’s been great. The Army Corps of Engineers has awarded contracts for the construction of alternate care facilities, also, at the State University at Stony Brook, State University Old Westbury, and the Westchester Community Center. We’re sending 60 ambulances to New York City today. We have a total of 60. We’re getting some additional ones, with up to 190 more to follow at different locations. To date, FEMA has obligated more than 1.3 million dollars — billion dollars in federal support to the State of New York. So we’re spending a lot of money in New York. It’s a hot — it’s a hotbed. There’s no question about it. And we’re spending a lot of time, effort on New York, New Jersey. Spoke with Governor Cuomo a lot. Spoke with Governor Murphy a lot, in New Jersey. And we’re — we’re really getting the job done. People are very impressed, and I’m very impressed by the people in FEMA, the people in the Army Corps of Engineers because what they’ve done, I’ve never seen anybody do anything like it. In addition to the 8,100 ventilators that we’ve already delivered over the next 48 hours, we’re delivering more than 1,000. We’re going — 400 ventilators are going to Michigan very shortly, 300 going to New Jersey, 150 ventilators to Illinois, 150 to Louisiana, and 50 to Connecticut. FEMA and HHS already delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns, and 22 million gloves. And I don’t know if you just saw it. It just came over the wires that Ford just announced, just a little while ago, that they will produce, along with General Electric Healthcare, 50,000 ventilators, and they’re going to be doing it in less than 100 days. On top of that, we have other companies that are doing ventilators, including General Motors. But we have nine other companies doing ventilators. As we outpace what we need, we’re going to be sending them to Italy. We’re going to be sending them to France. We’re going to be sending them to Spain, where they have tremendous problems, and other countries as we — as we can. But the fact that we’re doing so many so quickly is a tribute to our great companies. More than 14,000 National Guard members have been activated and can help supplement state and local efforts to distribute personal protective equipment, where we’re sending a lot. We have planeloads coming in. We have 51 loads from various locations all around the world, and they’re landing. We had our first big cargo plane land this morning, and we’re getting it from all over the world. And we’re also sending things that we don’t need to other parts. I just spoke to the Prime Minister of Italy, and we have additional capacity. We have additional product that we don’t need. We’re going to be sending approximately 100 million dollars’ worth of things — of surgical and medical and hospital things to Italy. And Giuseppe was very, very happy — I will tell you that. They’re having a very hard time. Joining us this afternoon are CEOs of the great American companies that are fulfilling their patriotic duty by producing or donating medical equipment to help meet our most urgent needs. What they’re doing is incredible. And these are great companies. Darius Adamczyk of Honeywell — you know that. And Darius has been somebody that I’ve dealt with in the past, and he’s a great leader of a great company. Debra Waller of Jockey International. A friend of mine, Mike Lindell of MyPillow. Boy, do you sell those pillows. That’s unbelievable what you do. David Taylor of Procter & Gamble and Greg Hayes of United Technologies Corporation. And I just want to tell all of you that America is very grateful to you and what you’ve done. An amazing job you’ve done, and we thank you very much. I’d like you to come up and say a couple of words, if you might, about your companies. Mike, come on up. Come on up, fellas, please. Come on up. You have to say what you’re doing because it’s been really incredible. Go ahead, Mike. Okay. That’s very nice. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Appreciate it. Please come on up. I did not know he was going to do that, but he’s a friend of mine, and I do appreciate it. Thank you, Mike, very much. Please. Thank you very much. Fantastic. Thank you. Normally, I’d shake his hand, but we’re not supposed to do that anymore. So, that’s okay. Great job. Thank you to Honeywell. Please, go ahead. Debra, please. Thank you very much. Fantastic job. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you. Fantastic. Great company. Those are great companies. Thank you very much. I’d like to ask Seema to come up and say a few words about what you’re doing and what’s happening and how positive it’s been. I really appreciate it. Come on up, Seema Verma. Thank you very much, Seema. Fantastic job. And you’re doing a great job. So, we are in the midst of something that is very difficult, but we are going to win; it’s just a question of when. We want to do it as quickly as possible. We want to have as few deaths as possible. And we will meet again tomorrow for some statistics, and some updates as to where we are, where we think we’re going, and timing. I think timing is going to be very important because we have to get our country back. We have to get our country back to where it was and maybe beyond where it was because we’ve learned so much. But we will have lost a lot of people. And in many ways, they’re heroes. And if you look at what’s happening with our medical professionals, it’s a danger. They’re — they’re warriors. Men and women are doing a job that — the likes of which I don’t think anyone’s ever seen. I see them coming out of planes today, going into New York, going into the most dangerous locations, dangerous areas. And they go in there and they just want to do the job. And you see the numbers. You see the numbers like I see the numbers. I have some friends that are unbelievably sick. We thought they were going in for a mild stay. And, in one case, he’s unconscious — in a coma. And you say, “How did that happen?” So I just want to thank all of the great professionals: men and women — doctors and nurses and paramedics and first responders and law enforcement. By the way, if you look at New York and you see how — the effect that this had on law enforcement, it’s been incredible. These are great people — firefighters. Great people. They’re helping in so many different ways. So, thank you very much. And if you’d like, we’ll take a few questions. John, please. Right. Yeah. Right. Sure. They’ll be staying. They’ll be staying. They’ll be staying and we may add a few more, but the guidelines will be very much as they are. Maybe even toughened up a little bit. But they’re having a big impact. They’re having a tremendous impact and we’re starting to see it. And that’s the key: We’re starting to see the impact that they’re having. Yep. Right. Well, I think that some are ramping up to a level that they’re not going to have to, John, and I think that we also have kept in reserve — we have almost 10,000 ventilators in our line. We have them. We’ve held back just because we did the stockpile. We didn’t want to give them because we don’t know where the emergency — this hits — it hits, like, so fast. It comes so quickly. And we have 10,000 — we’re probably going to send some of them now. We’ve been sending a lot to Michigan and various other states. We’ll probably send some additional ones to Michigan. New York has been doing very well, but we can add some more to New York. We’re adding them to the areas that are having a problem. Even Alabama, all of a sudden, flared up a little bit, as you saw the last couple of days, and we’ll send them down to Alabama. So, we have 10,000; we kept them for this very specific purpose. It sounds like a lot, but it’s not when you think about it. But we’re making a lot and when you see — they’re talking about hundreds of thousands being made in a very short period of time because if you look at what just — so, we have now 10 companies, at least, making the ventilators. And we say, “Go ahead.” Because, honestly, other countries really — they’ll never be able to do it. It’s a very complex piece of equipment and it’s — it’s big and expensive. I do think so. Yes, I do think so. I think we’re going to be in very good shape. And we had a great call today with a governors. And they were — I actually said, I hope that the media is listening to this call because it was a really good call. And that was randomly selected — largely Democrats and Republicans in there. I think, for the most part, they were saying thank you for doing a great job. And we discussed that at the end of the call. So it really — people are very happy with what we’re doing. Now, the circumstances are so terrible because of what’s going on, but I think they’re very impressed by the federal government. I watched that beautiful ship floating in today into — you know, weeks ahead of schedule; almost four weeks ahead of schedule — into New York Harbor. The Comfort. And I watched the Mercy floating into Los Angeles a week ago — almost a week ago. And they are stocked. They are really ready to go. They are stocked with both talent and tremendous amounts of equipment. And the Navy and everybody else involved — they got it ready so fast. It’s just incredible what they can do. They’ve geared up. That’s why, I mean, I am so impressed by the people involved. Mike and I were talking about it before: the level of genius to put it all together so quickly. This wasn’t — a month ago, nobody ever heard of this. Nobody had any idea. The Mercy was being maintained. It was in maintenance for a month. And when they heard we needed it — and I was surprised — they said, “Sir, we’re ready to go.” I said, “What do you mean? You’re not going to be ready for three weeks.” “No, sir, we’re all ready to go.” It was incredible. So — and we’ve had many instances like this. I think the building of the hospital — 2,900 beds — in a matter of days — a few days — is just incredible. Governor Cuomo was impressed and Gavin Newsom was impressed by what we’ve been doing with Gavin in California and the Los Angeles area in particular, but really San Francisco. All over. All over California. When you look at what we’re doing with Michigan, we’re getting along very well with Michigan. It’s a great, great place. We’re sending a lot of things to Michigan because that’s becoming a hotbed, especially in a specific area, as you know. It’s become very hot. It’s become — I don’t know, could even, at some point, supersede. But it’s — it’s got to be taken care of. So, we’re — the relationship we have with the governors, I just wish you could — because we took a lot of calls from a lot of different states and I wish you could have heard. Even a thing where, like, the governor of Ohio calls, where he has a company that does the sterilization, but they have a problem because it’s not going quickly at the FDA. And I call up Steve. And Steve comes in and he said, “We’ll get it done.” And they checked it, and they got it done almost immediately. And originally, they were approving it for 10,000 masks. And then it was supposed to be for 80 [thousand] and they ultimately approved it for 120,000. I mean, that’s a tremendous number. And I kept wondering, why aren’t they sterilizing these masks? And I assumed maybe you couldn’t do it. But then I’d look at them and they’d look like, you know, it’s not cloth. It’s something that looks like it could be sterilized and that’s what they’ve done. And that’s the machine that is over there actually. They have a piece of the machine over there. I won’t bother showing it to you. And this is incredible — when you talk about 5 minutes, 15 minutes — and highly accurate and not nearly as disturbing to do as the other tests. So, we’ve just gotten better. We’re doing things that nobody else ever thought of. Please. Well, we’re letting the governors do in their states pretty much what they want with our supervision, and they consult with us in all cases. Some go further than others, as you know. I mean, I could give you plenty of examples, but I’m not going to do that because we never want to be controversial. But some of the governors have taken it a step further. And people are questioning — people are questioning that. But, look, staying at home, with respect to what we’re talking about, doesn’t bother me at all. People should be staying at home. That’s what we want. OAN, please. OAN. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think what we’re doing is we’re trying to, as a group, governors — and that’s Republicans and Democrats — you know, we’re just working together to solve this problem. That’s been a — what you’re mentioning has been going on for a long time, and it’s a sad event. A lot of sad events in this country. But what we’re doing is now we’re working on the virus. We’re working on that hidden enemy, and I think we’re doing a great job on — as good a job as you can possibly do. When Tony and Deborah came up with numbers yesterday to say that, if we did nothing, you could lose 2.2 — up to two point — and maybe beyond, I don’t know. Maybe beyond. But 2.2 million people if we did nothing. And I can’t tell you what the unfortunate final toll is going to be, but it’s going to be a very small fraction of that. So we’re doing an awfully good job, I think, with what we’re doing. Please go ahead. Please. Yeah. Well, we’ve talked about it. We — you know, there are — obviously, there are some parts of the country that are in far deeper trouble than others. There are other parts that, frankly, are not in trouble at all. So, hopefully, we’re going to be able to keep it that way by doing what we’re doing. So we talked about quarantine, as you know, the other day. A group came to me and they wanted to do the quarantine. And I said, “Let’s think about it.” And we did. And we studied it. And by the time the evening came, it just was something that was very unwieldy, very tough to enforce, and something we didn’t want to do. But we did an advisory and I think that’s doing well. I mean, I see — I look at the streets. You look at New York, where there’s — I looked down Fifth Avenue today. They were showing a shot of Fifth Avenue in, sort of, prime time, and there was almost nobody on Fifth Avenue. I’ve never seen that before. There was no car. There was no anything. So I think the people of this country have done an incredible job. If we do that, we will let you know, but it’s pretty unlikely, I would think, at this time. Yes. Please. Come. Thank you very much. Thanks. It is amazing. You look at Louisiana and for a long time it was just — it was just staying at nothing. And then all of a sudden, I look one day and I see a lot and a lot and a lot, and then it explodes. And now we’re working very carefully and very powerfully with them. We’re building hospitals and we’re building a lot of different things for Louisiana. So it’s very important. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Yeah. We’re prepared. I hope it doesn’t happen. Doctor, would you like to say something about that? I hope it doesn’t happen, but we’re certainly prepared. Okay. Please. Go ahead. Yeah. Very interesting. I saw it. Well, we haven’t discussed it to that extent, but it’s certainly something we could discuss. We’re getting certainly the number of masks that you’d need. We are in the process of talking about things. I saw his suggestion on that. So we’ll take a look at it. For a period of time, not forever. I mean, you know, we want our country back. We’re not going to be wearing masks forever, but it could be for a short period of time. After we get back into gear, people could — I could see something like that happening for a period of time, but I would hope it would be a very limited period of time. Doctors — they’ll come back and say “for the rest of our lives, we have to wear masks.” Well, the GPS — that’s a very severe idea. I’ve been hearing about it — GPS. So what happens? A siren goes off if you get too close to somebody? That’s pretty severe. But he’s somebody — he was with me for a long time. He worked — he did a great job at FDA. So — so we’re going to — we’re taking a look. I just — I just received it a little while ago. He sent it over. So, very good. Go ahead. Let’s give it a shot. Here we go. Well, isn’t it true? It will go away. And I do want them to stay calm. And we are doing a great job. If you look at those individual statements, they’re all true. Stay calm. It will go away. You know it — you know it is going away, and it will go away. And we’re going to have a great victory. And it’s people like you and CNN that say things like that. That — it’s why people just don’t want to listen to CNN anymore. You could ask a normal question. The statements I made are: I want to keep the country calm. I don’t want to panic in the country. I could cause panic much better than even you. I could do much — I would make you look like a minor league player. But you know what? I don’t want to do that. I want to have our country be calm and strong, and fight and win, and it will go away. And it is incredible the job that all of these people are doing — putting them all together — the job that they’re doing. I am very proud of the job they’re doing, that Mike Pence is doing, that the task force has done, that Honeywell and Procter & Gamble and Mike, and all of these people have done. I’m very proud. It’s — it’s almost a miracle, and it is — the way it’s all come together. And instead of asking a nasty, snarky question like that, you should ask a real question. And other than that, I’m going to go to somebody else. Please, go ahead. Please. Yeah. Well, I expressed what was told to me by a tremendous power in the business. He said that, at a New York hospital, for a long period of time, he was giving 10,000, maybe maximum 20,000 masks over a short time. And all of a sudden, he’s giving 300,000. And I said, “No matter how bad this is, could that be possible?” He said, “No.” So there’s only a couple of things that could happen. Is it going out the back door? And I’ve reported it to the city and let the city take a look at it. But when you go from 10,000 masks to 300,000 masks, Mike, over the same period of time, there’s something going on. Now, I’m not making any charges, but when everyone is looking for masks — and, by the way, that’s another thing: We’re making a lot of masks. And the sterilization process is going to save a lot of time and a lot of masks. But when you have the biggest distributor of product that distributes to many of the big hospitals and hospital chains, and he brings up a statistic like that — and I know you’re trying to make a big deal out of it, but you shouldn’t be. You should actually go over to the hospital and find out why. You shouldn’t be asking me. I’m just saying that’s the way it is. You should go over there as a great reporter. I have no idea who you are, but that’s okay. You should go over there, go to the hospital, and find out: How come you used to get 10,000 masks and you had a full hospital? New York City — always full. And how come now you have 300,000 masks? Despite the virus and all, you have three- — how do you go from 10 [thousand] to 300,000? And this is very serious stuff. I mean, I could see from 10 to 20, or from 10 to 40 or 50 or something. But how do you go from 10 [thousand] to 300,000 masks? So what I think you should do as a — I’m sure you’re a wonderful investigative reporter. You should go to the hospital and find out why. Okay, yeah. Steve, please. Well, it’s — it’s so bad for the economy, but the economy is number two on my list. First, I want to save a lot of lives. We’re going to get the economy back. I think the economy is going to come back very fast. Steve is just asking about the economy, what’s it like. We basically shut down our country, and we did that in order to keep people separated, keep people apart. They’re not working in offices, they’re not in airplanes together. You know, we really shut it down. And, you know, 150, 151 other countries are pretty much shut down. But here, we’re the — we had the greatest economy in the world. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. And I had to go from doing a great job for three years to shutting it down. But you know what? We’re going to build it up and we’re going to build it up rapidly. And I think, in the end, we’ll be stronger for it. We learned a lot. We learned a lot. And I have to say, we’ve had great relationships with a lot of countries. China sent us some stuff, which was terrific. Russia sent us a very, very large planeload of things, medical equipment, which was very nice. Other countries sent us things that I was very surprised at, very happily surprised. We learned a lot. We’re learning a lot. And we’re also learning that the concept of borders is very important, Steve. It’s very important. Having borders is very, very important. But we have done an incredible job. The economy is going to come back. My focus is saving lives. That’s the only focus I can have. We’re going to bring the economy back and we’ll bring it back fast. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Please. Yeah, well, it’s — it’s very much on par. Look — look — per capita. We have areas of country that’s very tight. I know South Korea better than anybody. It’s a — very tight. Do you know how many people are in Seoul? Do you know how big the city of Seoul is? Thirty-eight million people. That’s bigger than anything we have. Thirty-eight million people all tightly wound together. We have vast farmlands. We have vast areas where they don’t have much of a problem. In some cases, they have no problem whatsoever. We have done more tests. What I didn’t — I didn’t talk about per capita. We have done more tests, by far, than any country in the world, by far. Our testing is also better than any country in the world. And when you look at that, as simple as that looks, that’s something that’s a game changer, and every country wants that. Every country. So rather than asking a question like that, you should congratulate the people that have done this testing, because we inherited — this administration inherited a broken system, a system that was obsolete, a system that didn’t work. It was okay for a tiny, small group of people, but once you got beyond that, it didn’t work. We have built an incredible system to the fact, where we have now done more tests than any other country in the world. And now the technology is really booming. I just spoke to — well, I spoke to a lot. I’m not going to even mention. I spoke to a number of different testing companies today, and the job that they’ve done and the job that they’re doing is incredible. But when Abbott comes out and does this so quickly, it’s really unreal. In fact, one company, I have to say, that stands out in the job — and I think I can say this; I don’t want to insult anybody else — but Roche. Roche has been incredible in the testing job they’ve done. And they’re ramping it up exponentially. It’s up, up, up, up. And you should be saying congratulations instead of asking a really snarky question, because I know exactly what you mean by that. You should be saying congratulations to the men and women who have done this job, who have inherited a broken testing system, and who have made it great. And if you don’t say it, I’ll say it. I want to congratulate all of the people. You have done a fantastic job. And we will see you all tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate everybody being here. Beautiful day in the Rose Garden. Tremendous distance between chairs. Social distancing. You practice it very well. We appreciate it. That’s great. I want to start today by highlighting several critical developments on both the testing and treatment that will help us win our war against the coronavirus. On Friday, the FDA authorized a new test developed by Abbott Labs that delivers lightning-fast results in as little as five minutes. That’s a whole new ballgame. I want to thank Abbott Labs for the incredible work they’ve done. They’ve been working around the clock. Normally, this approval process from the FDA would take 10 months, and even longer, but we did it in four weeks. Abbott has stated that they will begin delivering 50,000 tests each day, starting this week. And as you know, even before this development, we’ve been doing more test — tests than any other country anywhere in the world. It’s one of the reasons that we have more cases than other countries, because we’ve been testing. It’s also one of the reasons that we’re just about the lowest in terms of mortality rate, because we’ve been doing more testing. So we have bigger numbers to look at. I want to also thank General Semonite, of the Army Corps of Engineers, and General Polowczyk, who’s here with us, who’s going to say a few words in a little while. What the Army Corps of Engineers did, along with FEMA, in New York was incredible. They built 2,900 beds’ worth of hospital. An incredible hospital in the Javits Center, which I know well. And I just want to say that was unreal. They did it in less than four days. People have never seen anything like that. And it’s an incredible, complex, top-of-the-line hospital. They did it so quickly. Everyone is trying to figure out how they did it, including me — and I was a good builder. But they did it very quickly, Mike. So we’re very — we’re very happy. So I want to thank Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA — the incredible job they have done. Now they’re moving to other locations throughout the country where they already have people building hospitals. We’re doing them in Louisiana and New Jersey — many, many other places. But these are incredible men and women, and they worked around the clock. And the people of New York are very happy. Governor Cuomo expressed his thanks, which we appreciate. But these are — I mean, there’s nobody could have done a job like that. Most people have never seen anything like it. The deployment of rapid testing will vastly accelerate our ability to monitor, track, contain, and ultimately defeat the virus. We will defeat the virus. It will also allow us to test doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers immediately and enable us to act quickly and aggressively to shut down the spread of the virus — so important — in critical facilities like hospitals and nursing homes. And we will ensure that we can give cities and states the best information to guide local decision makers and making. I want to point out that the hydroxychloroquine is being administered to 1,100 patients — people in New York — along with the Z-Pak, which is azithromycin. And it’s very early yet; it’s only — it started two days ago. But we will see what happens. I want to thank Stephen Hahn, who’s a great doctor — left one of the best jobs in our country running an incredible Hospital in Texas. And he’s the head of the FDA. And Stephen got approval for that so fast. Let’s see how it works. It may, it may not. But we may have some incredible results. We’re going to know soon. So it’s tested — it’s being tested on 1,100 people in New York. The FDA is also allowing the emergency use of a blood-related therapy called convalescent plasma as an experimental treatment for seriously ill patients. This treatment involves taking blood plasma from patients who have already recovered from the virus. So they’ve recovered; they’re strong. Something was good in them that worked. And so we take the plasma from those people that have recovered so well — meaning, their plasma is rich in antibodies against the virus — and transfusing it into six [six] patients — sick patients, very — very, very powerfully. So, sick patients will be transfused with the blood taken to boost their immune system. We’ll see what happens. And we’re having some early results that are good, but we will see. And that’s going, I think, very rapidly. Again, we got approvals in, really, very quick time. We’re also looking at an approval for the sterilization of masks. I kept saying to myself — I’d see some of the masks are very complex. We’re delivering millions, by the way. Millions. But I kept saying, “Why aren’t they able to use that mask a second, third, fourth time?” And Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio, called me. They have a company that is in the final process of getting approval for the sterilization of masks, and in some cases, depending on the mask — some of these masks are very, very strong, very powerful, very strong material — they’re able to sterilize the mask up to 20 times. So that’s, I guess, like getting 20 masks. And so we worked on that. As soon as I heard from Mike today, I got involved, and the FDA is now involved. And we’re trying to get a fast approval for the sterilization of masks. That would be a tremendous difference. That would be really helpful. While much of the research has to be done — we have a lot of research left to do, obviously — this treatment on plasma has shown promising results in other countries. We’re in communication with other countries, and very strong communications. And they’re very reliant on us in just about all cases. We have the greatest people in the world. They’re very, very anxious to find out how we’re doing on our different things, whether it’s a cure or whether it’s really anything having to do with getting people better. We have some interesting things will be announced, I think over the next few weeks, but we’ll see what happens. They’re being tested right now. The vaccines are moving along very rapidly. The vaccines are an answer, but I’d like to see if we could do something therapeutically so that we could take care of the people that are already sick. And we’re working on that at a level that people would be amazed. These are incredible people. They don’t stop. This method also has been used for more than a century — and that’s the blood-related therapy — you know, more than a century to fight off infectious diseases. So it’s not unusual. Our level of complexity has changed, but it’s a concept that’s been used for a long time, including during the Spanish Flu epidemic. And that was really a pandemic of proportions like, frankly, nobody has seen until what we’re facing now. That was in 1918. You know what the result of that was; probably from 75 to 100 million people were killed. And also, other viruses, like the one in this outbreak — this is a very tough one. This is a tough one because it spreads so quickly, like nothing we’ve seen. It spreads so easily, so quickly. We’re unleashing every tool in our nation’s vast arsenal — economic, medal [sic] — medical. If you look, medical, and scientific, military. Homeland Security is working very, very hard with all of them in order to vanquish the virus. As you know, every level of government — state, local, and federal — is working nonstop to obtain more personal protective equipment for frontline workers. We’re delivering vast orders of this material. I’m going to ask a couple of the people here to join me that both make it and deliver it. Joining us today are the leaders of America’s largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, including McKesson, Cardinal Health, Henry Schein, Owens & Minor, Medline, FedEx, and UPS. We just concluded a very productive meeting about ways to keep our supply chains and delivery systems moving at top speed. And maybe I’d like to just ask for a couple of minutes for Mike Kaufmann to come up, and maybe Ed Pesicka. Mike is with Cardinal and Ed is Owen & Minor. But I — and I appreciate. And if anybody else has anything, please come up. But if you could come up, Mike, for a second and, Ed, for a second. Just, if you could maybe say what you told me before when we had the meeting. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Please. Thank you very much. And I bring that up because when we discussed, back in a room — we were in a conference room — a very nice one, actually; it’s called the Cabinet Room — that statement was made that they’ve been delivering for years, 10- to 20,000 masks. Okay, it’s a New York hospital. Very — it’s packed all the time. How do you go from 10 to 20, to 300,000? 10- to 20,000 masks to 300,000? Even though this is different, something is going on, and you ought to look into it as reporters. Where are the masks going? Are they going out the back door? How do you go from 10,000 to 300,000? And we have that in a lot of different places. So, somebody should probably look into that, because I just don’t see, from a practical standpoint, how that’s possible to go from that to that. And we have that happening in numerous places — not to that extent; that was the highest number I’ve heard. That’s the highest number you’ve seen, I would imagine, right? But this man makes them and delivers them to a lot of hospitals. He knows the system better than anybody. And I think you were more surprised than I was when you saw that number. So thank you very much. I hope I didn’t get any of your clients in trouble, but it could be that they are in trouble. So they have to look at that in New York. FEMA is working with these companies to launch Project Airbridge to expedite the movement of critical supplies from other countries to the United States. The first flight arrived at JFK Airport, New York, this morning, filled with 80 tons of personal protective equipment, including 130,000 N95 respirators — those are the ones that we were talking about before — 1.8 million face masks and gowns, 10.3 million gloves, and many other things. Millions and millions of different items. FEMA has scheduled 19 additional flights and is adding more daily. We hope to have about 50 flights. We’re going to have — I think including the one that came in today, we’re up at 51 flights with these massive planes from the different companies. That was so nice to be here today. Would you like to say something on behalf? Please, come up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job you’re doing. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great job. Please. Great job. Yeah. Fantastic job. Anybody else, if you want? Yes, please. You’re doing such a great job, we have to — — have everybody if they want. Thank you. Thank you. So thank you all very much and for the great job you’re doing. It’s really incredible, frankly. Many of the states are stocked up. Some of them don’t admit it, but they have — we have sent just so much — so many things to them and — including ventilators. You know, there’s a question as to hoarding of ventilators. Some hospitals and independent hospitals — and some hospital chains, as we call them — they are holding ventilators; they don’t want to let them up. We need them for certain areas where there’s big problems. We can’t hold them if they think there might be a problem weeks down the road. So we’ve delivered a lot, and this group has been really fantastic. We want to thank you. And UPS and FedEx, in particular, you’ve gone absolutely out of your way, so we appreciate everything you’ve done and delivered. The federal government continues to mobilize every resource to make sure our frontline doctors and nurses have the equipment needed to save American lives. Yesterday, I visited Naval Station Norfolk as the USNS Comfort departed from New York three weeks ahead of schedule, fully loaded with 12 operating rooms, 1,000 hospital beds, and hundreds of the best doctors, nurses, and medical professionals anywhere in the United States Navy — anywhere, frankly, in the United States. It was an incredible thing to see. Mostly you saw that on television as it was leaving. It left literally three weeks early. It was under maintenance, and they got the maintenance done very quickly. They work round the clock as many of the people have. And it was a great sight. Additionally, two of the country’s largest health insurers, Humana and Cigna, are announcing that they will waive co-pays — which is a big deal for anybody that understands insurance; they don’t waive co-pays too easily, but we’ve asked them to do it and they’ve done it — coinsurance and deductibles for the coronavirus treatments to help ease the financial burden on American families during this pandemic. So they’re waiving co -pays, coinsurance, and deductibles. Nobody has — I don’t think anyone has heard of that one. Have you heard of that one before? I haven’t heard. I want to thank them. Great companies. Today I spoke with Wolfgang Puck. Wolfgang Puck is a great restauranteur, as you know, as is Jean-Georges and Thomas Keller and Daniel Boulud, and other leaders in the restaurant business, which has been probably one of the hardest-hit industries. I’ve directed my staff to use any and all authority available to give restaurants, bars, clubs incentives to stay open. You’re going to lose all these restaurants and they’re not going to make it back. They have to get going. So what I’m doing is I’m going to tell Secretary Mnuchin and also our great Secretary of Labor, who you know very well, to immediately start looking into the restoring of the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations that set the restaurant business back a lot when it was done originally, and then done not so long ago. And we’re going to go to deductibility so that companies can send people to restaurants. I think it’ll have a tremendous impact and maybe keep them open. I mean, don’t forget, some are closing right now, despite the fact that they could be open in the not-too-distant future, and we expect that. But there are some that aren’t going to be able to get open, and we want to make sure they do. So we’re going to look at the restoration — restoring the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations so that corporations can send people to restaurants and take a deduction on it like they did in the old days. That was when restaurants were doing really well. The financial relief bill I signed on Friday provided historic relief for American workers and small businesses, and it includes $350 billion in job restoration and retention. So if you look at job retention loans for small businesses, that’s a big deal, with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying the worker. So it’s $350 billion — job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying workers. I mean, how about that? Three hundred billion dollars in direct cash payments are being sent to every American citizen earning less than $99,000 per year; $3,400 for the typical family of four. So they’ll be getting a check for $3,400 for the typical family of four. Approximately $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. Under this plan, the average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100 percent of their salary for up to four full months. The bill provides for these unemployment checks to be delivered through the existing state unemployment systems, not us. State. And I was opposed to this method because many of the states have very antiquated computer systems that are 45 years old, and they’re not prepared to handle this kind of distribution, this kind of money coming in so quickly. They’re not set up for that. And I didn’t want to do it but our opponents wanted it, so we did it. And if they don’t get their money fast, I’m going to ask that we convene the federal government — that we come back to Congress and we’ll do something where we take care of it, because we can take care of it very easily and quickly — and I said that. But a lot of these systems, they’re so old and so antiquated at the state level that they’re going to — they have the money, and they’re going to get the money very quickly, but they’re not going to be able to distribute it. So remember what I said, and we will, if we have to, call Congress back or find some other way of delivery of the money. Throughout this great national struggle, the American people have embodied the unrivaled patriotism and willpower that has led America to conquer every challenge — every single one in our nation’s history. More than 90 percent of Americans say they’re staying home as much as possible, putting their lives, their careers, their educations, and their dreams on hold out of devotion to their fellow citizens and to their country. Social distancing: That’s the way you win. These shared sacrifices are pulling our nation together like never before. Family bonds are strengthening. Neighbors are looking after neighbors. It’s incredible. I’m seeing, you’re seeing, everybody is seeing what’s happening. Communities are rallying for the cause, and all divisions are fading away. The Americans of every background are uniting to help our nation in this hour of need. It’s up to 151 countries. So when we say “our nation” — our nation and the world, when you think. Think of it: 151 countries. Somebody said to me today that wasn’t in this particular world — they didn’t know that we had that many countries. A hundred and fifty-one countries. That’s something. And some are struggling at a level that nobody would have believed possible. If you look at Italy, if you look at — France is having big problems. Spain is having incredible problems. Something we did very well is, when we stopped the inflow from China at a very early level, that was a good thing to do, a great thing to do. We would have had thousands and thousands of more deaths. And we also stopped the inflow from Europe at a very early level. But those things were very important, especially the initial one, because we had never done anything like it, where we closed our borders to a country like that. The modeling put together by Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci and our other top healthcare ex- — I mean, we have — and these people are amazing — the healthcare experts who, in this country, are the best in the world. They demonstrate that the mitigation measures we are putting in place may significantly reduce the number of new infections and, ultimately, the number of fatalities. I want the American people to know that your selfless, inspiring, and valiant efforts are saving countless lives. You’re making the difference. The modeling estimates that the peak in death rate is likely to hit in two weeks. So, I’ll say it again: The peak, the highest point of death rates — remember this — is likely to hit in two weeks. Nothing would be worse than declaring victory before the victory is won. That would be the greatest loss of all. Therefore, the next two weeks, and during this period, it’s very important that everyone strongly follow the guidelines. Have to follow the guidelines that our great Vice President holds up a lot. He’s holding that up a lot. He believes in it so strongly. The better you do, the faster this whole nightmare will end. Therefore, we will be extending our guidelines to April 30th to slow the spread. On Tuesday, we will be finalizing these plans and providing a summary of our findings, supporting data, and strategy to the American people. So we’ll be having lots of meetings in between, but we’ll be having a very important statement made on Tuesday — probably Tuesday evening — on all of the findings, all of the data, and the reasons we’re doing things the way we’re doing them. We can expect that, by June 1st, we will be well on our way to recovery. We think, by June 1st, a lot of great things will be happening. I want every citizen in our country to take heart and confidence in the fact that we have the best medical minds in the world tackling this disease. We have the best science, the best researchers, and the best talent anywhere working night and day to protect your family and loved ones and to overcome this pandemic. With the grace of God, we are rising to the occasion. We are proving that no darkness can overshadow the eternal light of American courage. We will win. And when we do, we will rebound with astonishing force and speed. We will be stronger than ever, and we will have learned so much, where something like this can never hurt us to the extent it has — and the world — again. In our present crisis, the strength of our people is our single most important asset, and together we will defeat this invisible curse — this is invisible enemy — and rise to incredible new heights. So I just want to thank you all for being here. And we’ll take some questions if you’d like. Yeah, please. Kelly. No, I want the people of New York to check — Governor Cuomo, Mayor de Blasio — that when a hospital that’s getting 10,000 masks goes to 300,000 masks during the same period — and that’s a rapid period — I would like them to check that. Because I hear stories like that all the time. You know, we’re develop- — we’re delivering millions and millions of different products and all we do is hear that, “Can you get some more?” But when you hear that — and I heard that from one of the great companies of the world at doing this — it’s a client. And they’re going from — you heard it — 10,000, 20,000, tops, to 300,000. And that’s a hospital that’s always full. So I think people should check that because there’s something going on, whether — it’s not — I don’t think it’s hoarding; I think it’s maybe worse than hoarding. But check it out. Check it out. I don’t know. I don’t know. I think that’s for other people to figure out. But you don’t go from numbers like that. Now, other equipment likewise, because we’re delivering a lot of ventilators, we’re deve- — and we’re building. By the way, we’re building and buying, and we have a lot of ventilators that we’re going to be sending out very soon. We also have, right now, in the stockpile, almost 10,000 ventilators that we have to hold in case of emergency. We don’t want them going out and then Louisiana has a tremendous problem, which we now know they do. You know, all of a sudden, it came very quickly. It came — I mean, Louisiana was doing so fantastically well. Then, all of a sudden, there was a big rash of cases. So, we have to be prepared to move the ventilators. They’re very important pieces of equipment. They’re very expensive and they’re very complex. They’re very — it’s like building a car. You know, these are expensive, complicated — very complicated pieces of equipment. So we now have 10,000. And we inherited a system which was broken. Just like — I’ll never forget the day when a general came and said, “Sir” — my first week in office — “we have no ammunition.” That was in the military. We’ve now rebuilt our military stronger than it’s ever been. And we have so much ammunition. You wouldn’t believe it, how much ammunition we have. But the same thing here. We had — we had a stockpile that was deficient. We had testing that was no good. We had a testing situation that just wasn’t right. It was okay for very small cases, but it was obsolete and it was broken, and it was only good for a very small situation. But what I’d like to do is I’d like to ask Dr. Fauci to come forward and discuss the number, because I think the number — I think the number is going to be a very different number than the numbers that you talked about. Please, Doctor, you might talk about that. Deborah, please. Would you — can you explain the 2.2 million, if we did nothing? Because a lot of people would like to know that. I just want to reiterate, because a lot of people have been asking, “Well, what would have happened if we did nothing? Did nothing — we just rode it out.” And I’ve been asking that question to Tony and Deborah, and they’ve been talking to me about it for a long time. Other people have been asking that question. And I think we got our most accurate study today, or certainly most comprehensive. Think of the number: 2.2 — potentially 2.2 million people if we did nothing. If we didn’t do the distancing, if we didn’t do all of the things that we’re doing. And when you hear those numbers, you start to realize that with the kind of work we went through last week, with the $2.2 trillion, it no longer sounds like a lot, right? So you’re talking about — when I heard the number today — first time I’ve heard that number, because I’ve been asking the same question that some people have been asking — I felt even better about what we did last week with the $2.2 trillion, because you’re talking about a potential of up to 2.2 million. And some people said it could even be higher than that. So you’re talking about 2.2. million deaths — 2.2 million people from this. And so, if we can hold that down, as we’re saying, to 100,000 — that’s a horrible number — maybe even less, but to 100,000; so we have between 100- and 200,000 — we all, together, have done a very good job. But 2.2, up to 2.2 million deaths and maybe even beyond that. I’m feeling very good about what we did last week. Yes, please. Go ahead, please. No. It was just an aspiration. We actually will be hitting, potentially — and this was with our meeting before — on Easter, we probably — they — well, that could be a peak. That could be a peak period. That could be the peak. Sadly to say, that could be the peak number of deaths before it starts coming down. No, that was aspirational. We had a — an aspiration of Easter. But when you hear these kind of numbers and you hear the potential travesty, we don’t want to do anything where — you know, we don’t want to have a spike up. We don’t want to do it soon, and then all of a sudden you go down — you’re coming down and then you start going up again. Because we discussed that can happen, and we don’t want that to happen. We’ve gone through too much. So that was an aspirational number. I didn’t say “Easter.” I said, “It would be a great thing, if we could do it by Easter.” And we know much more now that we knew two, three weeks ago. Easter should be the peak number, and it should start coming down, and hopefully very substantially from that point. Okay? Thank you. Please. OAN. Well, I don’t know. I know that — boy, that’s a nice question. Thank you very much. Yeah, I don’t want high approval ratings for this. I wish we could have our old life back. We had the greatest economy that we’ve ever had, and we didn’t have death. We didn’t have this. We didn’t have this horrible scourge, this plague — you can call it whatever you want. The virus. But we’re working very hard. That’s all I know. You know, I see things — I see numbers. They don’t matter to me. What matters to me is that we have a victory over this thing as soon as possible. When you hear that 2.2 million people could have died if we didn’t go through all of this, and now the number will be, you know, a much lower number. Hopefully, it’s going to be the numbers that we’re talking about. But — so I appreciate it very much. But, you know, what I want is I want our life back again. I want our country back. I want the world back. I want the world to get rid of this. This — again, 151 countries. And we’re going to do it. We’re going to have a great victory. We’re going to have a great victory. Go ahead, please. Well, that’s what they said. I told you what they’re going to take. Co-pays in particular, that’s a big deal. Insurance companies don’t do that, and I appreciate it. Humana and Cigna, they should be getting a lot of credit for that. I don’t know. Well, those two are getting a lot of credit right now for it. And they should, because it’s something that — it’s a lot of money they’re waiving. And so we thank them. Will there be other companies? I wouldn’t be surprised. There’s great — There’s great spirit. I’ll tell you what — yeah, I’d love to have them do it. Let them waive those co-pays. There’s a great spirit in this country right now. I mean, I know insurance companies better than anybody. They just don’t do that. But now there’s a spirit like I have not seen. I have never seen anything like it. I mean, even the media is much more fair. I wouldn’t say all of it, but that’s okay. They should be fair because they should want this to end. This is — this is about death. So I want to thank Cigna and Humana. Thank you. They haven’t asked for reimbursement, so I assume they’re not. They said they’re going to waive them. Waiving them doesn’t mean we’re going to waive them and get reimbursed. No. Well, they’re going to be getting the money. I will tell you, I think landlords are going to take it easy. We may put out a statement on that. I think a lot of people that are owed money are going to take it easy. They don’t, sort of, have a choice. But a lot of concessions are made, just like the insurance companies. A lot of concessions are being made that wouldn’t have even been thought of three weeks ago. Not even thought of. So, a lot of really positive things are happening. Please, behind you. I didn’t do that at all. Read the statement. Read the statement. Read what I said. I said we’re going to look into “possibly quarantine.” I didn’t say we’re “going to quarantine.” I looked at it as a possibility, because a lot of our professionals suggested quarantine. I said we’re going to look at it. We then looked at it. You see? Who are you with? Bloomberg, right? I can’t imagine that. Let me just tell you, I didn’t threaten it. I don’t go around threatening. What happened is, people — professionals, very good professionals — love the idea of doing that, because that’s sort of the ultimate in distancing. You can’t do — they didn’t want New Yorkers, where they’re having a problem, necessarily going down to Florida where they have less of a problem. So the concept of quarantine was thrown out to me. Really, would love to do it — they would love to do it. And I thought it was too much to do, because the people are doing a great job with it. Also, it’s very hard to enforce. Okay, please. No, I think we made people aware to stay in your houses and do good. Now we did an advisory. It’s a strong advisor. The governors are running the advisory — the three governors: New York, New Jersey, Connecticut. And I think we did a great thing. But all I did yesterday, as you know, and you can see it. You can read it. You can read. And you can see very simply that I said that, “We are looking into it.” And then before the end of the evening, substantially, we decided to go with the advisory, which frankly, I liked better from the beginning. Go ahead. I didn’t say that. I didn’t say that. I didn’t say — come on. Come on. You know, why don’t — why don’t you people act — let me ask you: Why don’t you act — Why don’t you act in a little more positive? It’s always trying to “get you.” “Get you. Get you.” And you know what? That’s why nobody trusts the media anymore. That’s why people — Excuse me. You didn’t hear me. That’s why you used to work for the Times and now you work for somebody else. Look, let me tell you something: Be nice. Don’t be threatening. Don’t be threating. Be nice. Go ahead. It’s not going to impact. We’re producing tremendous numbers of ventilators. We’re doing a great job on it. Mike Pence, our Vice President, has headed up the task force, which has been incredible, the job they’ve done. We have everybody in the White House working on it. We have — everybody in the country is working on this in one way or the other. The fact is, we’ve done a great job of delivering. You’ve seen the biggest people in the business — I mean, there’s nobody even close to this group of people. We had a meeting at 3 o’clock. It lasted for a long time. It was a great meeting with the generals and with everybody else. And they have done a fantastic job. I’m just saying this: If they’re holding — let me give you one example. We sent thousands of generators to New York. They were put into a warehouse — a New York warehouse — that happened to be located, interestingly, in Edison, New Jersey. They were given to New York, and we then went to other places, also giving thousands of ventilators. The people in New York never distributed the generators. We said, “Why didn’t you distribute them?” Now, you have to understand, they have New York people working in those warehouses. I knew they had them. So we said, “Why didn’t you distribute them?” I’m — I hope they’ve distributed them now. But maybe they didn’t need them so badly. But just so you know, we’re all — you, me, everybody — we’re all on the same team. You know, when — when journalists get up — and you’re a journalist, a fine journalist — — when journalists get up and ask questions that are so threatening — we’re all on the same team. Take a look at my interview. What I want to do is, if there is something wrong, we have to get to the bottom of it. When I hear facemasks go from 10,000 to 300,000, and they constantly need more, and the biggest man in the business is, like, shocked — he knows all about the virus, by the way; he’s not surprised by that. He knows all about it. He shouldn’t be surprised. He should say, “Well, that’s standard,” because this is, really, a very tough disease. This is, really, a very tough virus to handle. Okay. Please, go ahead. Go ahead. That’s — that’s enough. Thank you very much. Please. Please. That’s enough. That’s enough. That’s not fair to your other reporters. It’s not fair. You had a long time, a long question. It’s — if we have time, I’ll get back to you for your second question. Is that okay? All right. Thank you. I appreciate it. Well, we don’t know that, but we think the peak will hit. Right, that is — Our two doctors here. Well, I can. I think I’ll ask Doctor and Doctor. Maybe you could both come up and give your opinion on that, because that’s really — Okay. Please. Thank you. Just — just to finish with — So — so what both were saying, and what Dr. Fauci just brought up, we don’t want to do well and then end a little bit early and have it start going up again, because that would be a disaster. Go ahead, please. Yes. Yes. Yes, we are. In fact, I met last night with our people. We’re sending them a lot of different things that we’re not needing, because we’re obviously in need of a lot also. And we’re also helping them monetarily. We are helping Italy a lot. We’re working very closely with Italy. And we’re working closely with Spain too, which is really hit hard. And we’re — we’re working with everybody. I spoke with Angela Merkel the other day; Germany is hit hard. Their mortality rate is different, I think, because they do more testing. But their mortality rate is much different. Italy’s mortality rate is very high, so is Spain. But we’re working very closely with them. Yes, we had a big meeting on it last night. Admiral Giroir, would you please come up and just talk a little bit about the tremendous success that’s been made on testing from where we started? Thank you. Thank you, Admiral, very much. Yeah, please go ahead. Well, I don’t have to tell you because those companies have come into line. They’re doing a great job. They’re working very hard 24 hours, around the clock. So I don’t want to give their names now because they are — they’ve been great. They’ve come into line. And, by the way, General Motors is doing a fantastic job. I don’t think we have to worry about General Motors now. They’ve really — they’ve really done a job. And what the Admiral said also — I think we can add this, Admiral: The reason we show more cases than anybody else in the world is we’re doing more testing than anybody else in the world. So we have more cases because we’re doing far more testing than anybody in the world. And remember, we started with a system that was broken. For many years, it was broken. And I’m not blaming the last administration. I’m saying other administrations. And our pipeline had very little in it. Just like we had no ammunition, we had very little medical; we had very little in our pipeline. Now we have ammunition — more than hopefully we’ll ever need. And we also have a pipeline that’s packed. And now we have those 10,000 ventilators that we can use because you need some quickly. I mean, this goes quickly from place to place. I’d love to give them all out right now. But we need them quickly. I don’t want to give them out and then we have to take them back and move them someplace else. So we’re very much prepared. Please. Well, I think you’re going to find that most — almost all states — look, I was on the call yesterday with the governors, and they were happy with the job we’re doing. And I’ll tell you what: If you had a different administration, they would not have been happy. These are people that speak their mind. They were happy. It was falsely reported by a couple of people that, “Oh, gee, they weren’t” — they were happy. They were thrilled. Florida has been taken care of and Michigan has been taken care of — a very important state. To me, it’s very important because I’m so proud of what we’ve done, bringing car companies back into Michigan. And we’re now dealing with the governor, and I think, Mike, I can say that a lot of good things are happening in Michigan. Massachusetts — we’re dealing with the governor very strongly and we’re trying to get things to Massachusetts as rapidly as possible. Well, Florida — look, they’re very aggressive in trying to get things, and they’re doing a very good job. But I think — I think I can say all of the governors are very committed. We’re very committed. We’re working together. And we’re getting things out at a level that nobody has ever seen before. We can — you can speak to FedEx, you can speak to UPS. You can speak — they’ve never done anything like this, what they’re doing right now. And nobody in the world has been able to match what these great companies have been able to do. If we left that to government, it would have been a tough thing. We have mobilized private enterprise. We have mobilized the greatest companies in the world. And what’s happening is incredible, and that includes Abbott, where Abbott comes out and, all of a sudden, out of nowhere comes up with this incredible test that simplifies everything and makes it so easy. So I think you’re going to find most states are very happy. I’m dealing with the Governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards. He’s a Democrat — if that’s what you’re getting at. But I’m dealing with him very successfully. I think he’s very happy. I think he’s actually amazed at what he’s been able to get. In fact, we were even forward thinking. I suggested we send additional ventilators and other things. We’re building a hospital in Louisiana, very importantly. We’re building hospitals in New Jersey. Governor Murphy of New Jersey is a terrific guy and, frankly, he wants — you know, he’s got a pretty hot spot right there, right next to New York. And we’re doing hospitals. We’re doing ventilators. We’re getting a lot to Governor Murphy; that’s New Jersey. Last night, I spoke to the governor of — last night, I spoke to the governor of Connecticut. We had a great talk with him. We are really doing a job. Look, Gavin Newsom, the governor of California, he’s been — he’s been terrific. We sent him a boat way ahead of schedule — the ship — way ahead of schedule — a hospital ship, the Mercy, with 1,000 beds, operating rooms. And it’s — it’s been in L.A. for three days already. So I think they’re really happy. And when you think about it, in New York, we built 2,900 hospital rooms, beds. Nobody has ever seen it before. The governor has never seen anything like that before. This was done by federal government, not by state government. This was done by the federal government. They’re opening it tomorrow. I wanted to be there so badly but Secret Service and all of the people involved won’t let me. They won’t let me. I would love to be there, but they won’t love me, for obvious reasons. But I would have loved to have been at the opening tomorrow of the hospital in New York, Javits Center — at Javits Center. But we’re very proud of the job we’ve done. We’ve mobilized and getting better and better every day. And the task force, headed by your Vice President, the job they’ve done. And they don’t even sleep. Okay, any other question? Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. We’re ranking counties and we’re ranking states. And a lot of people put out false information because they don’t know what they’re talking about. And we took over a dead, barren system. We took over a system that was obsolete. It was — it was good for a tiny, little sample of people. It was — and even that didn’t work, because when CDC first looked at their test, the biggest problem they had is the test didn’t work. That wasn’t from us. That’s been there a long time. Now we have the best tests in the world. And nobody has — now they’re all calling: “Can we get the quick test?” We call it the “quick test,” where, by the way, probably more accurate and it takes a few minutes. I mean, it’s pretty amazing what we’ve done. No, we’re getting — we’re getting along great with the governors. Yeah, go ahead. Please. No, go ahead. Please. Yeah, thank you. Well, we hope not. But we think it’s going to — you know, we have aspirational thoughts. We would have loved to have been a little bit sooner, but we have to do it right. We could have done it. We could have done it on Easter, but there was a good chance that if it’s coming down or if it’s still going up — maybe it’s going to be coming down by then. But we just felt it was too soon. We can’t take a chance. You know, again, because of what we’ve done and because of the fact that we’ve stopped the flow from China so early — because the question is, from a lot of my friends, “Why didn’t we just wing it? Why didn’t we just wing it?” And I kept asking, and we did models now. Finally, we got these models in. And you hear about the 2.2 million people would have died. I don’t mean we would have had 2.2 million cases. These are 2.2 million people who would have died. 2.2 million people. Look, we’re going to have a meeting or speech or press conference or something on Tuesday. I thought what I’d — I was going to announce the end of April on Tuesday, but I said let’s do it now because somewhere along the line it’s going to leak. We might as well just do it now and get rid of all the leaks. This way it did it nice and clean. But we have to really do a great job for another couple of weeks. And I think we’re going to be in great shape. And we’re going to be in a position, even with what we’re trying to do with restaurants, with deductibility — we have to get these restaurants back in. We have to get our businesses open. We have to get the planes flying. We have to get everything going. We have to get even the cruise ships. I mean, we have to get those cruise ships moving along. We had the greatest economy in the history of the world, three weeks ago, and now we’ve said, “Please don’t work anymore.” We’re actually paying people not to work. Nobody has ever heard that. That’s not for us. People want to work. But at the same time — and I’m so glad that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx gave us a number. And the number on the outside — and maybe it’s not even on the outside; we don’t know — is 2.2 million people would have died if we didn’t do what we’re doing. And now we’re looking at numbers that are going to be much, much, much lower than that. And it makes everything we’re doing feel much better to me. Please, go ahead. That would be fine. Finish it. Go ahead. I was going to call on you next. You know that. Well, I could ask Dr. Fauci to come up, but it’s common sense. You’re going to have massive depression, meaning mental depression. You’re going to have depression in the economy also. But you’re going to have mental depression for people. You’re going to have large numbers of suicides. Take a look at what happens in a really horrible recession, or worse. So you’re going to have tremendous suicides, but you know what you’re going to have more than anything else? Drug addiction. You will see drugs being used like nobody has ever used them before. And people are going to be dying all over the place from drug addiction, because you would have people that had a wonderful job at a restaurant, or even owned a restaurant. I spoke to great people today that have done a great job. And one day, at the top of their business, they’re celebrity chefs, they’ve got the most successful restaurants, and in one day they have nothing. They’ve gotten wiped out. One day, from our enemy: this invisible, horrible scourge. So when you ask me that, it’s — it’s so easy to figure that. I mean, massive drug use, massive depression — mental depression, massive numbers of suicide. Anxiety causes, you know, disease, they say. A lot of people — you’re going to have tremendous. And hopefully we’re not going to have that, because hopefully, by what we’re doing, we get the best of both worlds. We don’t have 2.2 million deaths. We have a number that’s much less — much, much less. And at the same time, we get our country running again. Please. Thank you very much. You were next. He was very nice in doing it, though, nevertheless. Go ahead. Which is unusual for CNN. I don’t think so. It’s a great question, actually. I don’t think so. And I asked that the same. I said, “How about Nebraska? How about Idaho? How about Iowa?” And you know what? Those people are so great — the whole Midwest. They want to — I don’t think they want to be in that position actually. And probably — I was given a pretty strong look by these two people. They said, “We don’t like that idea.” So, you know, we’re relying on them. They’re the best in their profession, and they didn’t like the idea. And we could do it, but I don’t think it would be good. But I didn’t say that. I didn’t say that. No, it’s such a — excuse me. Ready? Ready? Ready? Take a look at what I said. I want them to be appreciative of me — okay? — and then you cut it off, because it’s fake-news CNN. Listen. Just, please, let me just finish. You just said it again, and you know the answer is a lie. You know that your statement is a lie. Let me just say — look, your statement and your response and your answer is a lie, because here’s the story. Are you ready? I said, “I want you to be appreciative of me,” and then you go on, and then I go on, and you cut it off. But it says, because when you’re not — Thank you. Thank you. I don’t call. No, I don’t call. No, I don’t call the governor of Washington now. But Mike Pence calls, and the head of FEMA calls. I don’t stop them. Did I ever ask you to do anything negative, Mike, to Washington, the State of Washington? Michigan — I love that state. That’s one of my favorite places in the whole world — Michigan. And I’m so proud of what’s happened with the auto industry; it’s coming back to Michigan. No, I don’t have to call because I’m probably better off not, because we don’t get — he’s a failed presidential candidate. He’s a nasty person. I don’t like the governor of Washington. So you know who calls? I get Mike Pence to call. I get the head of FEMA to call. I get the Admiral to call. But what you didn’t say — see, you started it off and you talked about “I have to be appreciated,” but then, when you read the rest, it said: Because if you don’t appreciate, you’re not respecting these incredible people — the two admirals. You’re not appreciating FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers who built 2,900 beds in three and a half days, and you’re not appreciating all of the work that’s been done, and you’re not appreciating these incredible people from private enterprise that are delivering things in numbers that nobody has ever seen. See, and that’s why people aren’t watching CNN very much anymore. That’s why they don’t like it. That’s why your ratings are no good, because you even — after knowing the truth for days now, you bring up the old lie. Read the read — the rest of your question, the rest of your statement, you didn’t put in. You have to put that in. And it said in there “FEMA,” and it said in there “Army Corps of Engineers.” Because when they disrespect me, they’re disrespecting our government. And you know what? I don’t mind if I’m disrespected, but they can’t disrespect the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. Okay. Please, go ahead. I want them to appreciate the incredible job we’re doing. We are doing a job the likes of which has never been done before. And there are a couple of people that know that, but for political reasons — let’s say they’re Democrats; they don’t want to give this administration credit, and that’s okay. But I don’t have to deal with them, but our Vice President does deal with them. Please, go ahead. But that’s why CNN is not trusted anymore. They are not trusted. They are fake news. Remember that. Go ahead. Yes, you are. Go ahead. Yeah. No, we think it’s going to really start to open up. We think that that’s going to be the bottom of the hill. That’s where we’re looking at — June 1st. Maybe even a little bit sooner than that. So we have this hill. If we did nothing, the hill would have been up here. We did a lot. We did just about maximum. And we got lucky, because we stopped China from coming in, and then later on we stopped Europe from — we got lucky. We got very lucky. The people that were coming in here, they went to Italy, they went to Spain, they went to other countries. We got lucky — and they got unlucky, to be honest with you. You look at what’s going on in Italy and Spain, in particular. So, no, I don’t want that. June 1st — we think we can reach the bottom of that hill on June 1st. And that would be a great thing. And I have confidence in the two of — the two doctors. I think that that could be a day. It could even be sooner. Could be a little bit later; it could be sooner. But I think people would be very happy if we did a job and saved, potentially, millions of lives. I think people would be very happy with that date. Okay. Yes, please. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Well, I’m prepared to do whatever is necessary to, number one, save lives, and number two, bring our economy back strong just like it was before. I think our economy has a chance to be just as good and even better than it was before. And remember, a lot of the money that you read about, that’s all coming back. These are loans to great companies that got stopped from doing business. They’ll be back very soon. So much of the money that we’re talking about, that money is coming back, and we’ll take warrants — meaning, we’ll take pieces of the company for the taxpayers of our nation. I expect that we’ll make a lot of money with that money. We’re going to make a lot of money, and that’s okay. I don’t even want to talk about making money, because what I want to talk about is two things: Number one is saving lives, and number two is bringing our economy back. Okay? But I think we’re going to do very well. That whole money, a lot of it is coming back. Please. Yeah. No, I know exactly what you’re saying. No, I’ve read that. Well, I’ve read that CNN doesn’t want to cover them. I’ve read that — except they can’t help them because their ratings are so high. You know, if the ratings were low, they wouldn’t be here. This man wouldn’t be here. In 100 years, you could bet your life that he would never be here with CNN and all their cameras, if they’re bad, because we help their ratings. We help — we lift up their ratings because their ratings are very low. But for the most part, I haven’t heard that. I will say, the Washington Post has a drive-on not to go to the President of the United States’ news conference — because, frankly, so many people are watching. We’re getting the word out. We’re getting the accurate word out. And a lot of people are happy about it, and a lot of people aren’t. But they should be happy. When I have the General, when I have Seema, and when I have Tony, and when I have our — our incred- — these are, like, people that have become big stars, okay? But they’ve done a great job. But Deborah has done a fantastic — all of these people. They — they don’t want to be stars. You know what they want? They want to win. They want to win the battle against the vir- — they’ve been fighting this stuff their whole life, between Ebola and swine flu and — I don’t know, I’m not sure I’d love your life, but that’s what you like, right? That’s what they do: They fight disease. And you know what? There’s nobody that does it better. But I think the American public — ultimately, they should be the decider. It’s like if they don’t want to watch, they shouldn’t watch. And we shouldn’t have bigger ratings than “The Bachelor” or, as the New York Times said, we have Monday Night Football-type ratings. Now, I didn’t say that. I have no idea what they are, in a sense, but I know that the Times, they say it’s all the news that’s fit to print. I say it’s all the news that’s not fit to print because I think they are not honest people, but that’s okay. But they can’t help it. But even they said that the ratings are like Monday Night Football ratings, and that these are like “Bachelor” finale — that’s their end. When the big deal happened — I have no idea what happened because I’m too busy working on this. Someday you will tell me what happened. So, no, I think it’s terrible. When they don’t want the President of the United States to have a voice, you’re not talking about democracy any longer. Please. Thank you very much. No. No. And this is before we heard the 2.2 million people. I mean, we had a lot of people who were saying, “Maybe we shouldn’t do anything. Just ride it.” They say, “Ride it like a cowboy. Just ride it. Ride that sucker right through.” That’s where the 2.2 million people come in, who would have died, maybe. But it would have been 1.6 to 2.2. And that’s not acceptable. But there were a lot of people that said — I thought about it. I said, “Maybe we should ride it through.” You know, you always hear about the flu. I talk about it all the time. We had a bad flu season. We’re in the midst of a bad flu season. You know, we had a bad season last year as an example. A bad flu season. And you’ll have 35-, 36-, 37,000 people die, sometimes more, sometimes less. But this is different. And part of this is the unknown, and part of it also is the viciousness of it. I had a friend who went to a hospital the other day. He’s a little older, and he’s heavy, but he’s tough person. And he went to the hospital, and a day later, he’s in a coma. I call: “How’s he doing?” “Sir, he’s in a coma. He’s unconscious.” He’s not doing well. The speed and the viciousness, especially if it gets the right person, it’s horrible. It’s really horrible. Please, go ahead. Yeah. I don’t think it’s a rumor. I think it’s a fact. Louisiana has been hit hard. And Louisiana, as an example, it started off with like nobody for so long. I spoke — when I spoke to the governor. But Deborah or Tony? Any — either of you, if you’d like to talk. Well, I haven’t. I think I’m waiting for that little 45-minute test. I sort of like that. Or now it’s down to five minutes, I understand. But, no, I haven’t. But I think I’ll — I think I will take it again, if it’s appropriate. I don’t feel there’s any symptoms. I don’t notice — have you noticed any sniffles? Nothing, right? So far, I haven’t felt that way. But, you know, there was a big, strong point made originally, and I think it still holds: Take the test if you need it, if you have the symptoms. If you don’t, don’t take it. That’s put out by the professionals. So, you know, I don’t have it. But I would — I would take it. I just wanted to say one thing also about what Tony had mentioned. So I grew up in Queens, New York, and right next to a place called Elmhurst, Queens. And they have a hospital that’s a very good hospital — Elmhurst Hospital. Right? I’ve known it. I’ve known where it is. I can tell you the color on the outside, the size of the windows. I mean, I know it very well, right? That was near my community where I lived. And I’ve been watching that for the last week on television. Body bags all over in hallways. I’ve been watching them bring in trailer trucks — freezer trucks; they’re freezer trucks — because they can’t handle the bodies there’s so many of them. This is in my — essentially, in my community in Queens — Queens, New York. I’ve seen things that I’ve never seen before. I mean, I’ve seen them, but I’ve seen them on television in faraway lands. I’ve never seen them in our country. Elmhurst Hospital — unbelievable people. I mean, I — when I see the trucks pull up to take out bodies — and these are trucks that are as long as the Rose Garden. And they’re pulling up to take out bodies, and you look inside and you see the black body bags. You say, “What’s in there?” It’s Elmhurst Hospital; must be supplies. It’s not supplies. It’s people. I’ve never seen anything like it. So, we’re doing — these people are doing a fantastic job. And somebody else who’s doing a fantastic job is sitting here, who is the head of the task force. And I just maybe want to finish off because I’d like to ask Mike — what do you think about what we’ve done and where do you think we’re going? And how do you feel also — and you’ve studied this so closely — how do you feel about the curve and the June 1st date? And that’s a very — that’s aspirational. But I think that’s, really, modified aspirational, because I think we’re going to hit it. And maybe we’ll even beat it. Okay, Mike? Please. Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much, Mike. So I just want to end by saying that we’re all in this together, all of us. I have never seen anything like it. The unity, the esprit de corps, the spirit — I’ve never seen anything like it. It’s a beautiful thing to watch. Unfortunately, the enemy is death. It’s death. A lot of people are dying, so it’s very unpleasant. It’s a very unpleasant thing to go through. But the level of competence, the level of caring, the level of love, I — I just think it’s brilliant, and it’s possibly happening in other countries. Possibly. I don’t know. I can’t speak to other countries, but I can speak to the United States of America. And I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: I am very proud to be your President. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. First of all, I’d like to congratulate the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA and everybody else in the federal government, working with state government, but on the incredible job that the Army Corps and FEMA did on building the hospital in New York at the Javits Center. Two thousand nine hundred beds. They built them ahead of schedule. They did it in four days. And these are mobile hospitals that are very complex and very good. Highest level. I want to thank, in particular, General Semonite, who many of you know, and Admiral Polowczyk, who’s right here; he’s with us. Admiral, that’s a fantastic job that you’re doing, just generally. And what you’re doing here is unbelievable. So we really appreciate it. And I’m going to have you say a couple of words in a minute. But we really do, Admiral. The whole military — the way they’ve stepped up is just great. So we did a 2,900-bedroom hospital. We’re also doing something in New Jersey. We’re going something in Louisiana. We’re going — we’re actually now occupying all 50 states. Some of them need little work, but some of them need a lot of work — more work than anybody would have ever dreamed of. Nobody could have imagined a thing like this — a tragedy like this would have happened: the invisible enemy. We will open — they’ll be opening the hospital tomorrow, in New York. And I just wanted to — tonight, when they go to bed, if they go to bed — they probably won’t bother because they’re not sleeping at all, but they’re going out to build a lot of additional mobile hospitals. And to get hospitals built in three days and four days — top-of-the-line facilities too. When you look at them, they’re really incredible. So, thank you very much, General Semonite. And, Admiral, thank you for the work you’re doing over here. Today, we’re glad to be joined by leaders of America’s medical supply and shipping companies. They’re big people. I know their names very well, from watching business and studying business all my life. We’re waging a war against the invisible enemy. We are grateful for your tremendous partnership — it’s been incredible — and the work you’ve done so far. And I know you’ve not only — so far, you’re geared up. I know that for a fact. And we thank you for the amazing job you’re doing and your amazing workers and truckers for delivering record amounts of lifesaving equipment. We’ve set every record you can set. The federal government has done something that nobody has done anything like this other than perhaps wartime. And that’s what we’re in: We’re in a war. My administration has mobilized our entire nation to vanquish the virus. We’re working across government and private sectors to get our heroic doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and — medical supplies they need. We’re getting them tremendous amounts of supplies. We do have a problem of hoarding. We have some healthcare workers, some hospitals, frankly — individual hospitals and hospital chains — we have them hoarding equipment, including ventilators. We have to release those ventilators, especially hospitals that are never going to use them. They have to release them. You know, it’s no different than people going into grocery stores and hoarding certain products. We have to release the ventilators. I spoke to a couple of people today, and I don’t want to mention their names, but there is hoarding going along. And it’s not really something that you wouldn’t understand. They don’t want to lose their ventilators in case they need them. But these are areas, in some cases, that probably will not need them, and in some cases, even if they do, they have too many. So they have to release ventilators, if they have them. They have to release certain medical supplies and equipment. My administration has done a job on really working across government and with the private sector, and it’s been incredible. It’s a beautiful thing to watch, I have to say. Unfortunately, the end result of the group we’re fighting — which are hundreds of billions and trillions of germs, or whatever you want to call them — they are bad news. This virus is bad news and it moves quickly, and it spreads as easily as anything anyone has ever seen. FEMA and HHS have shipped or delivered — delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 52 million face shields, 43 million surgical gowns, 22 million gloves, and 8,100 ventilators just over the last very short period. We’ve shipped many ventilators. We shipped many to New York. We just shipped some new ones to New York City, for the mayor. We’ve just shipped a lot of — a lot of ventilators to Louisiana, New Jersey. We’re shipping a lot of ventilators. We’re grabbing them and getting them, and we’re doing it any way we have to, whether we use the Act or we just use the Act as a threat. Yesterday, I visited Naval Station Norfolk to see off the USNS Comfort, which will arrive in New York on Monday. It’s very exciting. I think the governor will meet it, greet it. It’s stocked with equipment and goods and all sorts of — anything medical, they’ve got. And, as you know, they’re not going to be using that for COVID. They’re going to be using that for other people so that room is made for COVID. So we’re not going to have COVID patients — COVID-19 patients. We’re going to have people that will unoccupy hospitals on land, and then those hospitals are going to be filled up with COVID-19 patients. So I just want to thank all the people. As you know, the USNS Mercy is now in Los Angeles, and the governor has been very terrific to us. Governor Gavin Newsom, he’s been very nice. And we’re working together really well on this. Very important. But the Mercy arrived, and the Comfort will be arriving on Monday. And it will be hopefully greeted with great fanfare, because it’s three weeks ahead of schedule. As you know, we formed a historic partnership with your companies to bring massive amounts of medical supplies from other countries to the United States. And you bring in big amounts. This morning, our first project — and we call it “Airbridge.” It’s “Airbridge.” That’s the name. And it was a flight that landed at JFK and contains nearly 2 million masks and gowns, over 10 million gloves, and over 70,000 thermometers. This is the first of 50 flights. We’re going to have a total of 51 flights. And that will probably increase substantially. But at this moment, it looks like about 51 flights. And these are big, great planes, and they are bringing a lot of equipment into our country. And also, inter-country things too, but these are the 51 from outside. In the next 100 days, America will make or acquire three times more ventilators than we normally do in an entire year — and far more than that, depending on what happens with the Defense Production Act. And some of the companies where we’re using it or threatening to use it have been really responsible and stepped up. But I want to thank General Motors. As you know, we called General Motors for the Defense Production Act deeds, and they really seem to be working very, very hard. I think I’m getting very good reports about General Motors. And they’re carrying out contracts to build ventilators, and they’ve started already; they’ve opened a big plant. Boeing, Ford, Honeywell, Hanes also, and many others are repurposing factories to produce respirators and protective masks and face shields. Plus, we have many other people. Even — even Mike, the “Pillow Man,” right? Mike is great. He’s great. He’s amazing. He’s doing a good job. He closed one of his buildings, and he’s doing face masks. We are testing nearly 100,000 people a day, which is more than any other country in the world. And the reason we have more cases than anybody is because we’re finding more people because we’re testing much more. So when the fake news goes and says, “Well, we have more,” the fact is that if you look at other countries — you have countries with 1.5 billion people — those countries, if they tested everybody, you know, it’d be a whole different story. But we’re fine with it. We’re testing tremendous numbers of people. And, as you know, we have a test coming out on Monday or Tuesday that we just — a company came up with the idea. I’m going to let somebody talk about it in a second. But that’s a fantastic thing. You’ll be able to get almost instantaneous results instead of waiting for a day, two days, three days to get it from labs and hospitals. I look forward to hearing directly from you about what you’re doing, what you’re experiencing, how well we’re doing, and if any country is causing you problems. We’re also — where we have excess, we want to give it to other countries. We’re working along with Italy, we’re working along with France. They have massive problems. We’re working along with Spain. I spoke with Angela Merkel yesterday. Spoke with — as you know, I spoke with the leaders of most of the countries over there. They’re having a tremendous — they’re having a tremendous problem. They’re doing a great job, but they’re having a tremendous problem. So it’s a very sad thing. We’re up to 151 countries, as you people know. A hundred and fifty-one countries. Nobody would have thought this was possible. So with that, I think I’d like to start with the Admiral, and you can tell us a little bit about what’s happening. And then we’ll go around to some of the executives, if that’s okay. Admiral? Right. Well, I think you’re doing a fantastic job. Is he doing well? If he’s not, you let me know. Okay, we’ll reduce his rank by one notch. So could I ask Gina Adams of FedEx to say a few words, please? How are you? Thank you, Gina. Thank you very much. Great. And say hello to Fred for me. He’s doing a fantastic job. Tell him we appreciate it very much. Mike Kaufmann from Cardinal Health. It’s, I think, the biggest or one of the biggest certainly, Mike, right? Where do you stand in the chain of — Okay, you’re one of the biggest. Sure. Thanks, Mike. So you’re finding good coordination? I appreciate it. Thank you very much, Mike. Please. Please, go ahead. That’s what it is. That’s what it is. Great job. I know you are. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Bradford, please. Good. Right. Right. Thank you. Thank you, Bradford. Appreciate it. If I could, Brian Tyler from McKesson — great company. You do. That’s great. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Ed, please. They’re going fast. What about the sterilization of masks? Because I’m hearing that that’s a process that absolutely can happen if they have the right equipment. How is that going? Sterilization of masks. But they can do that. And for — — some reason, they’re not doing that. I don’t know why. There’s some companies that make the equipment to do it. They can sell it directly to the hospital, and bring it. I don’t care — bring it directly. Yes. Please. Well, I spoke with the great governor of Ohio — who’s doing a fantastic job, by the way — and he said there’s a company in Ohio that can do 10,000 masks, but they want to do eight- — 80,000 masks, but they need approval from the FDA. And I’d like to get them that approval, assuming it’s good. I’d like to get them the approval immediately. That would be a tremendous thing. They make machinery to sterilize masks, and they can’t get the approval for more than 10 [thousand]. And, you know, it sounds to me like something. So I spoke to the head of the FDA, Steve Hahn — Dr. Hahn, who’s doing a fantastic job — and I think he’s working on — could you push that for me? Because that’s a — that’s a game changer, in a way. They’ve been approved to 10 [thousand], but they’d like to be approved for 80,000. Okay? That’d be great. Please. Thank you. Good. Good. Well, thank you, Charles. Good job you’re doing too. I appreciate it. I love what you said about the masks because it never made sense. I look at those — you know, some of these things that at a certain level are very sophisticated, and they’re not just cloth. Cloth is different. But I look at it and I say “Why aren’t they just reusing them? Sterilize them and reuse them.” It just seems to make sense. And it can be done. Yeah, I think that’s fantastic. Media, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. I don’t want people to hoard. Okay? Thank you very much, Mark. And you’re doing a fantastic job, and our country appreciates it very much. And thank you, everybody, for being here. Today, I’m deeply honored to be at Naval Station Norfolk — the largest naval base anywhere in the world, and the home to the most powerful fleet that has ever sailed the seas. I just passed some of the most beautiful and, frankly, the most highly lethal ships that I have ever seen in my life, and there are a lot of them. And they’re in better shape now than they have been for many, many decades, with what we’re doing. We’re grateful to be joined by Commander of the U.S. Fleet Forces, Admiral Christopher Grady, and Commander of the U.S. Second Fleet, Vice Admiral Woody Lewis. Thank you both for being here. We appreciate it very much. As we gather today, our country is at war with an invisible enemy. We are marshalling the full power of the American nation — economic, scientific, medical, and military — to vanquish the virus. And we will do that. Today, I’m here to express my profound gratitude to the dedicated service members who will soon be on the frontlines of this fight. In a few moments, the crew of the Navy Hospital Ship USNS Comfort — which is really something — will embark for New York City, where they will join the ranks of tens of thousands of amazing doctors, nurses, and medical professionals who are battling to save American lives. This great ship behind me is a 70,000-ton message of hope and solidarity to the incredible people of New York — a place I know very well, a place I love. We’re here for you, we’re fighting for you, and we are with you all the way, and we always will be. You have the unwavering support of the entire nation, the entire government, and the entire American people. After being rushed out of maintenance with historic speed — it was supposed to be here for four weeks, and they did it in four days — the Comfort will arrive at Pier 90 in Manhattan on Monday, three weeks ahead of schedule. Its crew will begin treating patients on Tuesday. It will be met in New York Harbor by Governor Cuomo, who I just spoke with; he’s very excited — and they need the help. The skilled sailors and civilian mariners aboard this ship will provide a critical surge capacity for the New York metropolitan area. Their mission will be to care for New Yorkers who do not have the virus but who require urgent care. In other words, they’ll be using this — people will be coming out of hospitals who don’t have the virus, and they’ll be on the ship where they have great operating rooms and great facilities. And the places inbound, on land, will be where people that have the virus will be. So the people with the virus will not be on ship. The ship will be used for people having operations and other things other than that. By serving these emergency patients away from the hospitals, beds will be opened up all over the city for those who are infected. This ship can handle a lot of people, so it will open capacity all over the city. And it will be ready to address any life-threatening medical emergency. It is stocked. It’s stocked to the brim with equipment and medicines and everything you can think of. Importantly, by treating non-infected patients remotely on the ship, it will help to halt, very strongly, the transmission of the virus. The Comfort’s sister ship on the West Coast, the USNS Mercy, arrived ahead of schedule, substantially, in port yesterday. Governor Gavin Newsom was very thankful for it. They’re working very hard in California. It’s performing a similar mission for the people of Los Angeles and the people of California. As the USNS Comfort gets underway, it is fully loaded with 12 operating rooms — and they are fully equipped — 1,000 hospital beds, a medical laboratory, a pharmacy, an optometry lab, digital radiology, a CAT scan, two oxygen-producing plants, and a helicopter deck, which will be used very actively. It also bears our military’s greatest weapon of all: a crew of nearly 1,200 outstanding members of the United States Navy. And I thank them very much. Among the sailors departing today are some of the finest doctors, nurses, technicians, orderlies, and medical staff anywhere in the world. These are true professionals. And no one performs better under pressure when lives are on the line. These are incredible people. We will stop at nothing to protect the health of New Yorkers and the health of the people of our country in their hour of need. I also want to remind everyone about the CDC’s latest guidance: If you are from the New York metropolitan area and you travel elsewhere, we need you to self-quarantine for 14 days to help us contain the spread of the virus. And I am now considering — we’ll make a decision very quickly, very shortly — a quarantine, because it’s such a hot area, of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. We’ll be announcing that, one way or the other, fairly soon. This does not apply to people such as truckers from outside the New York area who are making deliveries or simply transiting through. It won’t affect trade in any way. The Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA are racing to build temporary hospitals — which are now completed, by the way, in record time — four hospitals, four medical centers. And in speaking with the governor this morning, we’re giving them an additional four large tents, which they need very badly. And the emergency medical stations in New York are top of the line. You have them in not only New York, but in California and Illinois. We’ll be adding some to other states also. I’ve empowered our nation’s governors with the resources to call up the National Guard and authorized the activation of Ready Reserves. Two big words: Ready Reserves. FEMA has shipped or delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 5.2 million face shields — and a lot are being made of all of the things I just named right now; we have millions and millions of new medical items being made as we speak, and purchased — 4.3 million surgical gowns, 22 million gloves, and 8,100 ventilators. We have moved rapidly to mobilize every instrument of American power. This week, I invoked the Defense Production Act to compel General Motors to carry out federal contracts for ventilators. And I think they’re going to do a great job; I have to say that. We’re also working with the major ventilator companies in the United States — all big name companies, all companies that do ventilators, so they won’t need extra time, and they’re gearing up and they’ll be working 24 hours around the clock, and they have been; they’ve been doing a fantastic job — to accomplish a historic ramp-up, and a ramp-up in the kind of numbers that we’re talking about. And if we make too many, that’s going to be okay, because I spoke with the Prime Minister of the UK yesterday, Boris Johnson. He tested, as you know, positive. And before I even was able to get a word out of him, he said — I said, “How are you doing?” He said, “We need ventilators.” The UK needs ventilators. A lot of countries need ventilators badly. It’s a tough thing to make. It’s a very complicated and expensive piece of equipment. I would say more so than a car. You’re talking about expensive, complicated equipment. So I hope we, soon, will have enough that we can help other countries with ventilators. A lot of countries need them. In the next 100 days, America will make or acquire three times more ventilators than we do in an entire year. We are so geared up. At Boeing, Ford, Honeywell, 3M, Hanes, and other great American companies, factory floors and manufacturing lines are being converted to produce the respirators, protective masks, face shields, and other vital equipment. And those companies have been amazing. And Boeing is giving us their cargo-moving planes. They’re the biggest cargo movers anywhere in the world, and we’re going to be using them to ship certain types of equipment to various states. Hundreds of millions of Americans are also making tremendous sacrifices on the home front. In a historic drive to support our great workers and businesses, I signed into law the single-largest economic relief package in American history. You saw that yesterday. The $2.2 trillion — and think of that: $2.2 trillion, but it goes to $6.2 trillion, depending on what we decide. This legislation delivers job retention loans for small businesses to help them keep workers on payroll, expanded unemployment benefits, and direct cash payments to American citizens. And these are very substantial payments. A family of four will be getting approximately $3,400. This legislation also provides massive increases in funding for hospitals who need it, for Disaster Relief Fund, and critical life-saving medical supplies. We’re spending a tremendous amount of money on medical supplies. We’re trying to get it to the point needed directly, as opposed to our supply lines, so it can go directly to where they need it without having to go through a long process. I don’t want to say “bureaucratic,” but we have not — this group of people has worked so incredibly hard, and the energy and the speed with which they’re delivering everything has been really admired by everybody. Everybody is talking about it — the job they’re doing. My administration has also taken action to dispend [sic] — and suspend federal student loan payments. So we’re suspending — and that means suspending, in every sense of the word — student loan payments so that the students that are not able to take advantage of what’s going on, obviously — for obvious reasons — they will be — the payment suspended. We’ve temporarily stopped federal evictions and foreclosures. We’ve postponed Tax Day until July, which is a big thing; first time that’s happened. And waived regulations to speed new treatments to the market. And we have new treatments coming on rapidly. We’re doing very well, we think, with the vaccines, and we’re doing very, very well with, hopefully, or potentially, cures. We’re looking at a lot of different alternatives, a lot of different medicines. That would be game changer. The battle in which we’re now engaged has inflicted many hardships on our nation and our families — tremendous hardship on some families — and much death. Much death. But through it all, the world has witnessed the unyielding resolve of our incredible American people. We are not only a country of vast resources; we’re a nation of colossal strength, towering spirit, soaring patriotism, and exceptional character. And you’re showing it to the entire world. At this moment, there are 151 countries throughout the world that are under attack by this horrible, invisible enemy. One hundred and fifty-one countries. And we’re in touch with a lot of them. Our professionals are the best in the world. But who would ever think 151 countries are under attack? We are one family, bound together by love and loyalty — the eternal traits so perfectly embodied by the extraordinary men and women aboard this ship, and the men and women at this beautiful, scenic, but really tough base. This base is something. Thank you very much. This base is something very, very special. With the courage of our doctors and nurses, with the skill of our scientists and innovators, with the determination of the American people, and with the grace of God, we will win this war and we will win this war quickly with as little death as possible. And when we achieve our victory — this victory, your victory — we will emerge stronger and more united than ever before. We are going to be at a level of preparedness in case something like this should ever happen again — and, God willing, it won’t. But we are prepared. What we’ve done in building systems, we’re now the number one tester anywhere in the world, by far. We’re testing more in one day than other countries are testing in weeks, in months. We’ve learned a lot. And I cannot be more thankful to the American people. And I can say this, and I can say this from the bottom of my heart: I am very proud to be your President. Thank you very much, and God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, we’re looking at it. We’re looking at it, and we’ll be making a decision. A lot of the states that aren’t infected, that don’t have a big problem, they’ve asked me if I’d look at it. So we’re going to look at it. And it will be for a short period of time, if we do it at all. It’ll be New York. It’ll be New York, parts of Connecticut, and parts of New Jersey. No, we won’t do that. We’re talking about leaving New York. Leaving New York. They go to Florida, and a lot of people don’t want that. So we’ll see what happens. We’re going to make a decision. We’re not going to need much. The people of New York, they understand it better than anybody, and they’ll be great. I’ll speak to the governor about it later. Yeah, we have a great oversight — a great oversight committee. We have a lot of people watching. It’s a wonderful thing we’ve done for the workers and for the citizens. It’s really, potentially, $6.2 trillion. And a lot of people are going to work, and it’ll bring back the economy, I think, very fast. Okay? Well, they couldn’t be criticizing me because we got a unanimous vote. How can they possibly criticize me? They just gave me — she’s saying they’re criticizing me, the Democrats. Why did they vote for it? We got a unanimous vote. Well, we’re going to see what happens. We want to get our country back to work. The doctors, nurses, first responders — everybody doing a phenomenal job, like beyond good. I’m going to — as you know, the Comfort — the great ship, Comfort — is stocked up to the gills. It’s right up to the top. And we’re going over there. I guess some of you are coming with me. But we’re going to send that up to New York four weeks ahead of schedule. And it is loaded up with everything. So that’s great. I just spoke with Governor Cuomo, and he’s expecting it on Monday. It’ll take about two days. So we’re very excited about that. But I’m going to go see the people that did the work, because it was supposed to take a good four weeks, and we did it in four days. So that’s pretty good. No, I think — I think 3M has done an incredible job. I just spoke to Ken Langone. I think he’s on the board of 3M. He called up and he said what a great job they’ve done. I think 3M, from everybody — what everybody said, they’ve done an incredible job. Okay? Oh, we’re going to have plenty. Absolutely. We’re going to use — I would say we’ll use it again, maybe once or twice. We have a couple of little problem children, and we’ll use it where we have to. But, overall, I tell you, the private free enterprise system is at work like nobody has seen in a long time. It’s a beautiful thing. It’s a beautiful thing to watch. Well, we’re looking at two companies that have not lived up to what they said. I would say they’re in a 1 percent group, okay? And now, all of a sudden, they heard we’re going to use it, and they’re rolling out the red carpet. So, I think, really, most of the governors are very appreciative. As I said, I just spoke with Andrew Cuomo. I just spoke with Ron DeSantis. We’re thinking about certain things. Some people would like to see New York quarantined because it’s a hotspot — New York, New Jersey. Maybe one or two other places; certain parts of Connecticut quarantined. I’m thinking about that right now. We might not have to do it, but there’s a possibility that sometime today we’ll do a quarantine — short-term, two weeks — on New York, probably New Jersey, certain parts of Connecticut. Restrict travel. Because they’re having problems down in Florida. A lot of New Yorkers are going down. We don’t want that. Heavily infected. We’re having a really good dialogue with Governor Cuomo. We’ve supplied him with a lot of things. We’re giving him an extra four medical centers, tents. That’s beyond what we’ve already given. As you know, we’re giving them to New Jersey. We’re doing a great job with the Governor of New Jersey. He’s been very good. Well, this would be an enforceable quarantine. And, you know, I’d rather not do it, but we may need it. So I will see you over at the ship. Thank you very much. Great to have you. And thank you all for being here. My administration is taking new action to ensure that America has the medical resources and equipment needed to fight the global pandemic. It’s been a brutal pandemic for over 150 countries all over the world. We’ve had great success over the last month. We’ve — as you know, the millions and millions of pieces of equipment have been delivered successfully by us — purchased and delivered. And we’ve made it available to the states. And the governors have been very gracious for the most part, I would say. There are a couple that aren’t appreciative of the incredible job. They have to do a better job themselves; that’s part of the problem. But, generally speaking, I have to tell you the governors have been great. I just spoke to the governor of New Jersey, Governor Murphy, and he’s very thankful. And Governor Cuomo has been very nice. They’ve — they’ve really appreciated, I think, what the federal government has done. You look at the hospitals that are being built all over the country by the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA; it’s been really incredible. Nobody has seen — they’ll build hospitals in two or three days — portable hospitals. This afternoon, I invoked the Defense Production Act to compel General Motors to accept, perform, and prioritize federal contracts for ventilators. Ventilators are a big deal and we’ve delivered thousands of them. And oftentimes, you don’t need ventilators very much. Hospitals don’t have very many. And now we’re — turning out that we have to produce large numbers. But we’ve been able to do that and we’re going to be doing a lot more. This invocation of the DPA should demonstrate clearly to all that we will not hesitate to use the full authority of the federal government to combat this crisis. We thought that we had to deal with, as an example, General Motors. And I guess they thought otherwise; they didn’t agree. And now they do. They do agree. And I think we might be able to pull it. But we let them know the way we felt, and they can’t be doing that. We’ll work in partnership with the private sector, but where an emergency exists — and it’s very important that we get to the bottom line and quickly — we will do what we have to do and immediately exercise all available lawful authorities to get the job done. This afternoon, I also signed an executive order investing — and very, very strongly investing — the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Homeland Security with the full authorities available under the Defense Production Act to respond to the outbreak of the terrible virus — the “invisible enemy,” as we say. My order also establishes that Peter Navarro — a very trusted person from the White House, and he’s been an incredible — he’s done an incredible job for me in terms of negotiation, in terms of understanding where the world is going, economically. But my order establishes that Peter will serve as National Defense Production Act Policy Coordinator for the federal government. That’s a very important position — more important, probably, than it’s almost ever been in our country. And so I want to congratulate Peter and his family. It’s — I know he’s going to do a fantastic job. He’s been doing that job over the last few weeks. Peter has a PhD in economics from Harvard; has a master in public administration from the Kennedy School, also from Harvard. And he’s a tremendous guy and he will do a fantastic job. But I’d like to maybe ask, before I continue, Peter to say a few words, please. Peter? Thank you very much. They can’t tell them much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Peter, and good luck. My administration is marshalling the full power of the American government, and we will do that, and that’s what we’ve done, and we will continue to do it until our war is won. Economic, scientific, medical, military, and homeland security — all of this to vanquish the virus. We are working to sign contracts immediately with the major ventilator companies in the country, including GE, Philips, Medtronic, Hamilton, ZOLL, RedMed[ResMed], Hillrom, and Vyaire. These are all companies that do this — great companies. The FDA will be reducing and waiving unnecessary regulations in order to get this done. We’re going to be getting rid of certain, let’s say, barriers to speed. We want them to get it done quickly. They’ve been doing it for a long time. They’ve been making ventilators for a long time. Hopefully, General Motors will join in the fray. Under the normal condition that you would be — regular times — 29,000 ventilators are distributed in the United States each year. In the next 100 days — well, first of all, we’ve already delivered thousands of them — but within the next 100 days, we will either make or get, in some form, over 100,000 additional units. And I guess, to put it in other words, in the next 100 days, we’ll receive over three times the number of ventilators made during a regular year in the United States, and that doesn’t include all of the thousands and thousands that we’ve — we’ve given to the various states, a lot of them. We delivered thousands, as you know, to New York and they didn’t know they got them. And then we also had thousands put in a warehouse, and that was also for New York. And they just found out that they were there, so we have to make sure that when we deliver things, they get distributed. Earlier today, I spoke to the CEO of Boeing, Dave Calhoun. And Boeing will be producing and donating face shields to help our medical professionals on the frontlines. These are actually pretty intricate, in terms of the plastic and the quality of the materials. They’re important. They’ve got to be top of the line and they’re going to do thousands of these a week. They’ve already tested the production and they’re ready to begin producing all of these shields. That’s the plastic shields that go over the face. Boeing is also offering us the use of their — what they call the Dreamlifter cargo plane. It’s the largest plane in the world. And this is sort of a picture of it. They called up just a little while ago. And that can sort of take anything. That’s the biggest in the world. And they’re letting us use that for the distribution of product all over the country, especially the heavy product or large quantities of product. And Boeing will dedicate up to three planes to the mission of flying medical supplies anywhere we need it. Each plane can carry 63,000 pounds of cargo per flight. That’s a lot of cargo. I also signed an executive order giving the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security the authority to activate the Ready Reserve components of the armed forces. This will allow us to mobilize medical disaster and emergency response personnel to help wage our battle against the virus by activating thousands of experienced service members, including retirees. We have a lot of people — retirees; great, great military people — they’re coming back in — who have offered to support the nation in this extraordinary time of need. And they come back in. They don’t say, “How much?” They don’t say, “What are we getting paid?” They just want to come back in. It’s really an incredible thing to see. It’s beautiful. This afternoon, I also signed into law $2.2 trillion in urgently needed relief for our nation’s families, workers, businesses, and Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. And the $2.2 trillion goes to $6.2 trillion, depending on need. So it’s the largest — it’s the largest bill ever signed — and not just emergency relief, but of any kind. We’ve never signed a bill of that magnitude. And, you know, incredibly, it was 96 to nothing in the Senate and it was essentially the same thing in Congress. They did it very quickly in the House. They did it very, very quickly. So, if you look at Congress — what they’ve been able to do — the House was a voice vote, I guess they would call it, and something like that rarely takes place. And 96 to nothing in the Senate for the largest bill in the history of our country. That’s pretty good. And I want to thank Republicans, I want to thank Democrats for coming together for the whole of the nation. And this is a great thing, a great victory. This is going to save companies that are incredible companies, but that are going to need some help because of what happened. A month ago, they were outstanding. They were having the best year they ever had and then we got hit. And so, we’ll help them out. It’s thousands and millions of jobs. It’s millions of jobs. And I just want to thank everybody for working so hard, and that includes the people standing with me right here. The legislation extends a vital lifeline to American families and American workers with job retention loans for small businesses — and a big focus of the bill is small businesses. They’re really the — they’re the energy. They’re whatever you want to call it, in terms of our nation. They push. People have no idea how big a factor — Peter can tell you — the small businesses are in this country, from an economic standpoint, from a job standpoint. We expand the unemployment benefits for workers very substantially and direct-cash payments will be going to American citizens — substantial. This legislation also provides a massive increase in funding for hospitals for the Disaster Relief Fund and critical supplies, including masks, respirators, and pharmaceuticals of all types. And, speaking of pharmaceuticals, as you know, we’re working vaccines. We’re getting some good response and we’re working on therapeutics and cures. And we have some very interesting things happening. This afternoon, Apple launched a new tool created in partnership with our task force, the CDC, and FEMA. Any individual who is concerned that they might have the virus can now download the free COVID-19 app on their iPhone and answer a set of simple questions about their symptoms and risk factors. It’s getting to be a very modernized system, indeed. They’ll soon receive HHS recommendations on what to do next, including whether they should get tested or not. And again, we only want people to get tested if they — if we think they need it. In a few moments, Secretary DeVos and Secretary Perdue will discuss new partnerships with the private sector that are providing meals to millions of students while schools are closed. They’ve both been incredible, the job they’ve done. I appreciate them very much. We’re grateful for the assistance of Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread Company. They’ve been so incredible to us and to the people of our country. And Denton McLane, Chairman of McLane Global Logistics. And they’ve joined us — they’re onstage with me. They’re going to speak. Throughout this ordeal, I have been awed and inspired by the American people more than anything else, more than anyone else. Americans of every walk of life have followed the guidelines, shown incredible compassion, and sacrificed greatly on behalf of their fellow citizens. I want every American to know that their selfless and heroic actions are saving lives. And I want them to know, and I’ve said it before, that I’m very proud to be their President. I’m very proud of the American people. My administration is actively planning the next phase in an all-out war against this horrible virus. We’re now testing nearly 100,000 patients per day — more than anybody in the world — and we have now, as of even a couple of weeks ago, tested more than any other country in the world and our capacity continues to grow. Widespread surveillance testing will allow us to monitor the spread of the virus — and we’re doing that quite accurately, and Deborah and Tony will be speaking about that; and coordinate with states to contain new hotspots as they arise with a targeted, fact-based and data-bra- — based approach. It’s all data driven. This surveillance testing will soon enable us to publish updated guidelines for state and local leaders. We want every county and region in the country to have the on-the-ground evidence that they need to determine the mitigation measures that are right for them. Each location is different. Some are very, very different. Some are day and night. Some are in great shape and some aren’t in great shape. And we’ll be able to have very accurate information very shortly. We already have a lot of that information. America is bravely battling this pandemic through cutting-edge science, medical innovation, and rational, deliberate, and determined vigilance. No effort will be spared in winning this war. We’re going to win the war. Hopefully, we’re going to win soon and with as few lives as possible lost. You see what’s going on all over the world. You see the lives, you see Italy, you see Spain, you see all of these countries going through so much, going through such hell. And we’re all in very strong communication, I can tell you. Our professionals are dealing with them every day, many of the countries. So many countries, but many of the countries, we’re dealing very directly and closely. And we’re going to be in very good shape, in terms of certain equipment that’s very hard to get, very hard to manufacture. And, at the right time, we’ll be distributing that equipment throughout the world to other countries. Boris Johnson was asking for ventilators today. As you know, Boris is — he has tested — unfortunately, he has tested positive and that’s a terrible thing. But he’s going to be great. I’m sure he’s going to be totally great. But they want ventilators. Italy wants ventilators. Spain wants ventilators. Germany wants ventilators. They’re all calling for ventilators. Well, we’re going to make a lot of ventilators. And we’ll take care of our needs, but we’re also going to help other countries. So I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank our great American citizens. And a lot of incredible things are happening — really happening — and it’s too bad. I was saying, before we had the press conference, when we signed — we had a signing ceremony, where we signed the largest bill in our history. And I said, “Think of it: 22 days ago, we had the greatest economy in the world.” Everything was going beautifully, the stock market hit an all-time high again for the over 150th time during my presidency, and the world was looking good. And then we got hit by the invisible enemy and now you have countries all over the world reeling. But we’re winning it, and we’ll be bigger and better and stronger than we were even before. And we will also have apparatus in place that works. We won’t have broken systems. We’ll have incredible systems so if this should happen again — and hopefully it won’t, but if a thing like it should happen again, we’ll be able to handle it very much more easily. So with that, I’ll take a few questions. Steve, please? Well, it got to be a debate over costs and we don’t want to think too much about cost when we’re talking about this. This is not cost. I wasn’t happy where General Motors built plants in other locations over the years, not so much during my term, but they built a lot of plants in other countries; I won’t name the countries but you can imagine. And so I didn’t go into it with a very favorable view. I was extremely unhappy with Lordstown, Ohio, where they left Lordstown, Ohio, in the middle of an auto boom because we had 17 car companies coming in and then they were leaving one plant in Ohio. I love Ohio. And what happens? That became the story — not that all these plants are moving in, but that you had one plant — they were leaving. And, frankly, I think that would be a good place to build the ventilators, but we’ll see. We’ll see how that all works out. But — so I wasn’t too thrilled. And then we thought we had a deal for 40,000 ventilators and, all of a sudden, it became 6, and then price became a big object. But Peter Navarro is going to handle that and Peter will do a very good job. We’ll see. Maybe they’ll change their tune but we didn’t want to play games with them. Yeah, please. The quarantine orders. Well, I think I’m going to let Tony speak to that a little bit later, but we’re being very strong on quarantine. We’re being very strong on people not leaving, especially certain states, and going to other states where they have less of a problem. I mean, you’re hearing constantly about people leaving New York and going down to Florida. And New York obviously is a hotspot and that’s why we’re building all those hospitals in New York and all those medical centers in New York. So we’ll let Tony answer that. But specifically, you have to understand, we’re not playing games. John? Yeah. It wasn’t after. It was before. And we just were not getting there with General Motors. We weren’t getting there. We were getting there with a lot of other companies. And we have the people that are doing it for me in the room right here, and we can have — we can talk to you later about it, but we have to get these people onboard. We’re not looking to get into a big deal on price. We’re not looking to be ripped off on price. We don’t want prices to be double, triple what they should be. So General Motors, we’ll see what happens, but now they’re talking. But they weren’t talking the right way at the beginning, and that was not right to the country. Well, I think there’s — — a very good chance we won’t need that many. And I think, frankly, there’s a great chance that we’re not going to need that many. But you know what? There are a lot of other people that are going to need them. We have countries all over the world that are friends of ours, and we will help those countries. We’re in a position to do things that other countries can’t. So we have sort of an interesting position. We can make them because we’re going to be making over 100,000 pretty quickly. So we can make them. And if we don’t need them, John, that’s okay because we can help Italy, and we can help UK — Boris Johnson, specifically. I mean, when I say, “How are you feeling?” And the first thing Boris said to me is, “We need ventilators.” Oh, absolutely. We’re not going to be keeping — all over the world, they want them. And we’re in a position to make them and other countries aren’t. Okay? Well, if you look — and I think you can ask that question best of Deborah — but I think their estimates are high. I hope they’re high. They could be extremely high. We’re doing even hospitals based on pretty high estimates. You know, I’m doing them anyway. And, as I told John, if we do not need them, that would be wonderful and we can help a lot of great people all over the world. We can help them live. But I think — I think his estimates are going to be very high. We’re going to see. Don’t forget, we sent thousands of ventilators to New York, and they didn’t know they got them. Then we sent thousands of ventilators to New York — they have a warehouse, a New York warehouse in Edison, New Jersey, which is an interesting thing. And we sent them to Edison, New Jersey. They were in the warehouse, ready to go, and New York never took them. So they knew they were there. So we have to get people lined up, but we’ve given them — And I’m not blaming New York. Look, this is something that’s of a magnitude that nobody has ever seen before. But I’ll tell you what: The federal government has done a hell of a job. So we sent thousands of ventilators to New York, and they didn’t know about it at the time. They were complaining. Thousands. We had 2,000, and then 2,000, and then 4,000, and they were going there in large numbers. And then before that, we sent many thousands. We want to have so many that we do have more than we need because we can send them to other great countries and other countries that have been our friends. And they’ll never be able to do it themselves. Yeah, please. Well, I think we’ve done a great job for the state of Washington. And I think the governor, who’s a failed presidential candidate, as you know — he — he leveled out at zero in the polls. He’s constantly chirping and — I guess “complaining” would be a nice way of saying it. We’re building hospitals. We’ve done a great job for the state of Washington. Michigan, all she does is — she has no idea what’s going on. And all she does is say, “Oh, it’s the federal government’s fault.” And we’ve taken such great care of Michigan. You know the care we’ve taken of New Jersey. I think if you ask, Governor Murphy of New Jersey, “How are we doing?” I think he’d say, “Great.” I think. He’s a Democrat. Governor Cuomo has really said we’re really doing a great job. And I saw the news conference where he was thanking the people from FEMA, the people from Army Corps of Engineers this morning. I mean, they built a hospital like in three and a half days and it’s a big hospital in the Javits Center, and they’re building medical facilities in different parts of New York. And Governor Cuomo has been appreciative. But, you know, a couple of people aren’t. We have done a hell of a job; the federal government has really stepped up. All I want them to do — very simple — I want them to be appreciative. I don’t want them to say things that aren’t true. I want them to be appreciative. We’ve done a great job. And I’m not talking about me. I’m talking about Mike Pence, the task force; I’m talking about FEMA, the Army Corps of Engineers. There’s no country in the world that could have done what the Army Corps of Engineers has done and is doing. Now they’re going in and building — literally, they’re going into hotels and renovating hotels. That should be for governors to do. That should be for states to do. We have the Army Corps of Engineers so teed up and so stocked up, and they’re really psyched and they’re incredible. And there’s no games with these people. They’re in there screaming, “Get it done. Get it done.” There’s not like sitting around, taking it easy. These are workers. These are incredible people. So I think the Army Corps of Engineers when — when somebody, for political reasons, wants to blame, I view that as blaming these incredible people. Nobody has ever seen it. I don’t know if you’ve been to the Javits Center. Now, I’ve seen it. I would love to go there, but with all that we’re doing — we will be tomorrow at the hospital boat. There’s another — we have this incredible hospital boat. It was supposed to be ready in three and a half weeks because it’s under maintenance — a big maintenance contract. We were able to get it done quickly. We were able to stock it up to the, you know, top. And it’s leaving tomorrow at two o’clock. It’s leaving Virginia. It’ll be in New York on Monday, weeks ahead of schedule. I think things — even the media — I think the media and governors should appreciate it. And I have to say, the media has been pretty good and the governors have been really good, except for a couple. And with them, it’s just political: “How’s Trump doing?” “Oh well, I don’t know, you know. Let’s blame…” Because we have done — we have done a job, the likes of which nobody has seen. I think they should be appreciative because you know what? When they’re not appreciative to me, they’re not appreciative to the Army Corps. They’re not appreciative to FEMA. It’s not right. These people are incredible. They’re working 24 hours a day. Mike Pence — I mean, Mike Pence, I don’t think he sleeps anymore. These — these are people that should be appreciated. He calls all the governors. I tell him — I mean, I’m a different type of person — I say, “Mike, don’t call the governor of Washington. You’re wasting your time with him. Don’t call the woman in Michigan.” All — it doesn’t make any difference what happens — No, no. You know what I say? If they don’t treat you right, I don’t call. He’s a different type of person. He’ll call quietly anyway. Okay? But he’s done a great job. He should be appreciated for the job he’s done. Yes, ma’am. No — No, but I have spirit for the country. I mean, we have sailors, we have doctors on that ship. We have everything. I mean, I’m not going to be jumping around in a huddle. But, yeah, I think it’s a great sign — the President of the United States — they got a ship out of maintenance, completed all the work in a fraction of the time — you know, it was supposed to be there for three and a half additional weeks, and they got it done and it’s in great shape — and they’re sending it up. So, the answer is — it’s a good question; it’s a fair question. I just feel that, as the leader of our country, when they can do work like they’ve done — and they’ve been working all day, all night — medical supplies, everything — loading up that ship. I don’t think it’s the worst thing in the world. It’s right down the road, practically. Right? Virginia. And I think it’s great if I go to Virginia. I guess I can take helicopter or plane. It’s very — it’s like a tiny trip. And I think it’s a good thing when I go over there and I say “thank you.” It doesn’t mean I’m going to be hugging people and it doesn’t mean that I’m going to be shaking people’s hands and everything. But I think it sends a signal when the President is able to go there and say thank you. So, you know, we’ll be careful. Peter. Yeah, I did. We did fill it twice. We filled it twice and we’ve been distributing that for — for literally a year. We’ve been — — filling out — we’ve been — nice question, Peter. Thank you very much. We’ve been filling it out and we’ve been filling that stockpile many, many times. It’s been filled many, many times. And now what we’re doing is something different because I think it’s better. We’d fill it so it comes from wherever the point of manufacture or whatever is — we fill it and then we go — now it’s full — now we take it and we distribute it around. Now, what we’re doing is, we have an emergency — we’re saying, “Go direct. Go direct. Go direct.” We fill it only where necessary. But now we’re trying to go direct. So they drop it off in New York or they drop it off in Michigan, they drop it off in Virginia, wherever it may be — Florida. Well, Florida is getting a lot — a lot of things. And we’re finding it’s a much better system. But we’ve filled and we’ve stockpiled many, many times. Yeah, we ended up with an empty shelf. Yes, please. Yeah. So I had a great conversation with the President of China last night, pretty late in the night. It was fascinating to me. You know, they have a whole — it’s a different kind of a world. It’s a different form of government, to put it mildly. We talked for a long time. We talked for at least an hour, I guess. And one of the things I was asking him is, you know, when did you notice that this was happening? We talked about the whole concept: how it happened, when it happened, what was the most effective use. I mean, was it the fact that, you know, distance — was distance the best thing? We talked about everything. And he’s gotten and developed — because they’re ahead of us, from the standpoint of time. It happened there actually long before it happened here. By the way, it would have happened here a lot sooner had we not kept those people out — the Chinese people coming over to the country — had we not kept them out. But we talked about it because he’s had additional experience of having been much earlier. And he’s — he’s developed some incredible theories and all of that information is coming over here. It’s — a lot of it’s already come. The data — we call it “data.” And we’re going to learn a lot from what the Chinese went through. Our relationship with China is very good. We also talked about the trade agreement. But, I must tell you, this whole invisible enemy has taken over the world. Nobody cares about trade, nobody cares about anything. You want to talk about trade? They immediately get back to this. So we really did — we talked about trade. You know, they’re starting to buy very heavily from the farmers under the agreement — under the trade deal that we just signed. But honestly, he, me, all of us — everybody is talking — you turn on television, you read the papers, it’s all about this. And you know what? It probably should be mostly about this. It’s hard to talk about, “Hey, how you doing with buying from the farmers?” They have started very, very large buying, as you probably have read, but what we really focused on was this. I also said, “How have you done with cures and how have you done with respect to vaccines?” We discussed that. And, you know, they’re doing like we’re doing. They’re working on it very hard. They think they have some interesting — interesting things have — have been determined and we’ll see what happens. But we talked a lot about vaccine. We talked a lot about possible cures. What — how good would that be? I mean that’s a game changer. So we’ll see. And, by the way, we have various things happening right now, having to do with cures and vaccines. And I think we’re doing — I think we’re doing very well. Especially in the vaccine thing, I think we’re very close. But as Tony will tell you, that’s a long testing process. So we’ll see what happens. He never asked me to suspended tariffs. No, we’re taking in billions of dollars. He never did ask me that. John. So, John, I’ll be sitting down with this brilliant woman and this brilliant man and lots of brilliant people that work with them, I think — right, Deborah and Tony? And we’ll be sitting down on Monday, or maybe Tuesday, depending on which is the best for everybody, and we’ll be making that determination. Okay? We’ll be making it. And, by the way, obviously we’re not doing it for New York. You see New York is just coming into this really heated situation. We’re building a lot of things in New York right now that nobody thought we’d ever be building. A lot of things are happening in New York. So, obviously — but we are talking about possibly other parts of the country, which really are affected to any major degree. Or maybe we won’t do that because maybe, at the advice of a lot of very talented people that do this for a living, they won’t want to do that. They won’t want to expose anything. They want to do it all at one time. These are the kind of things we’ll be talking about. Well, it depends. We do want to flatten the curve. We want to see that curve start heading down in the other direction, at a minimum. And we really have to talk about areas of the country that have not been affected or certainly have had a very small effect. And we’ll see. I certainly want to get it open as soon as possible. I don’t want it to be long, but we also want it to open safe. Otherwise, what did we do? I hope not. I hope it’s going to be sooner. I hope it disappears faster than that. I really think that the people of our country have done a great job. I looked — last night, I was watching, and I’m looking down Madison Avenue and Fifth Avenue. John, there were no people in the street. I mean, normally, you wouldn’t be able to see the sidewalk. There would be cars all over it. It would be like rush-hour stuff. I’m looking at it and I’m saying “I can’t believe it. There are no cars. There are no people.” There wasn’t one person on Fifth Avenue walking down the street. I’ve never seen that before. You know, I guess, maybe at one o’clock in the morning, four o’clock in the morning, maybe. But I’ve never seen that before. The people have been incredible. They’ve really been — when you talk about distancing — social distancing — I mean, you know, it’s — we don’t have a law. We’re not going to put them in jail. And yet, they’re really — I think there’s two things. Number one, they are afraid. And number two, they really are wanting to win this thing. Yes. Yes, please. Sure. So, yeah, sure. It’s a good question. We have brilliant people. We have a tremendous amount of money. And we have brilliant people that I’m taking from Wall Street with Secretary Mnuchin, who’s done an incredible job. A brilliant guy. I’m taking from Wall Street people that I’ve known, that you all know. The top people in the world. They don’t want money, they don’t want — I mean, will they get something? Yes, maybe they’ll get — who knows? Peanuts, what they want — compared to what they would normally get. I’m taking the smartest, the most brilliant people in the world in finance, and they’re going to be dealing. I’m not going to hire — I’m not going to hire somebody that’s never done it, that’s a political person or anything else. We’re getting the most brilliant financial minds in the world. I know all of them, and you know all of them. I mean, you read about all of them. I guess, some you don’t read about, and they’re probably the smartest of them all. But the fact is we’re taking these brilliant people, and they’ll be dealing with United. And they want to help. Look, the airline business — I’ll tell you right now: The airline business has always been a tough business. It’s always been a very tough business. Tough to make money with, with — it’s got every — every barrier you could have, that business has. But for our country, it’s very important. We have to take care of our country. We need the airlines to stay. It’s also big for jobs. So we will be able to handle United, and we’ll be able to handle Delta, and we’ll be able to handle all of it. We have plenty of money. Now, will we end up owning large chunks, depending on what these great geniuses decide, along with the executives of the different companies? You know, it’s possible. And they’ll make a better deal on the loan, but the taxpayer will then end up owning a big chunk of companies. As an example, Boeing — Boeing, until a year ago, was the greatest company, I think, in the world by far. There wasn’t — to me, there wasn’t anything close. I believe it was 1 percent of GDP. Okay? Think of it. One company, 1 percent of GDP. It was flawless. Then it had the problems, and then it had on top of it this whole thing with the virus. So Boeing will probably need a hand, and we’re going to bring Boeing back to health. But we have the smartest people in the world. We have the smartest. I don’t even know if you know that. I think this could be the first time you’ve heard it. People like Larry Fink we’re talking to, and — that’s BlackRock. And we have, you know, the smartest people. And they all want to do it. They all — I mean, this to them — they love this country; they all want to do it. So we’re speaking to people like that, and they’ll be able to work it out. No, I think they’re the same thing. I mean, you know, bringing people back to health and protecting people’s jobs. To me — and I’m okay with this stuff — that’s the same thing. I’m in a much different position as President than if I were an investor or something. But I want to bring them back to health because I want to preserve their jobs, but I also want to preserve airlines, because that’s preserving lots of other jobs. That’s preserving the travel and leisure industry, which is perhaps the largest industry in our country, if you add it all up. You add up all the hotels and all of the traveling and all the planes and everything else — probably, by far, the largest industry in our country. So, saving the airlines is very important. And the airlines were all doing well. You know, the airlines were doing record business a month before this — today, let’s say. Even 22 days to be exact — right? — when we first started seeing some real signs of problems. They were at record levels. Last year, they had a record year — the biggest in the history of the airlines. Everybody was doing well. I mean, I was presiding over the most successful economy in the history of the world. And now we’re going to have to rebuild it. And I think we’re going to have an absolute incredible fourth quarter. You know, and maybe it’s slightly after that, to be honest. But it’s going to be in that time period. As soon as we get rid of this, I think we’re going to have an explosion upward. It’s going to be incredible. Please. That’s true. I do, because he’s a very talented guy. He’s a very good governor. Everyone loves him. He’s doing a fantastic job for Florida. He was not happy with the people coming down from New York. You know, they’re flying down from New York, and he had a state — and has a state — with, you know, obviously a lot less problems. Florida has been doing really well in the sense of testing. The testing has shown much better results. I mean, they’ll talk to you about that later. But, no, he was very unhappy with the people coming down from New York, and I understand that. No, Ron is a very tough guy. He’s a great governor. And I have tremendous confidence in him. And, you know, he had the beach situation. He resolved that. He will get it all resolved. Yeah, please. You have to go louder. You have to speak louder. Well, we have some very, very strong restrictions. But you’re right, I don’t like it. So we’re seeing how it works. The data is coming in on Monday and Tuesday, and we’re going to see how it looks. But, you know, can we go to a tougher level? We can, but that causes other problems. We’re going to see, and we’ll be reporting back very shortly after my meetings with Tony, Deborah, and others that we’re going to be meeting — and our Vice President. And we’re going to be reporting back to the media, okay? Please. Corner? Yes. Yeah. I would say that you are a citizen of the greatest country anywhere in the world. And we were attacked like nothing that’s happened possibly since 1917 — many, many years ago. We were attacked. And we’re winning the battle and we’re going to win the war, and it’s not going to take, hopefully, that much longer. But we have to win the war. And I would say that they have a duty to sit back, watch, behave, wash their hands, stay in the apartment with mom and dad — they look like they’re lucky to have you as a father — and just learn from it. But, you know, they’re — the young people have been tremendous. They — some of them are very happy not to go to school. You understand that. Perhaps yours, perhaps, not. But they’ve been — we’ve had no — we have literally had no problem. But again, they should just sit back and be very proud of our country, because we’re doing it for them. You know, ultimately we’re doing it for them, more than anything else, if you think about it. The other thing that’s nice and the one thing that has come out, and I learned this — again, it was reaffirmed by President Xi last night in my conversation: The young people are really — this is an incredible phenomena, but they are attacked — successfully attacked — to a much lesser extent by this pandemic, by this disease, this — whatever they want to call it. You can call it a germ, you can call it a flu, you can call it a virus. You know, you can call it many different names. I’m not sure anybody even knows what it is. But the children do very well. It’s almost the younger they are, the better they do. I guess the immune system is, sadly, for some of us — their immune system is stronger. But actually, I’m very happy about that. But they have been attacked — for instance, the Spanish Flu, and if you look at the H1N1, the swine — if you take a look at the swine flu, which was, as you know, not so long ago, that attacked very strongly young children, kids, middle-aged people, everyone. Age is a — age is a factor here. So your children should be in good shape. But just tell them to be very proud of the country. Okay? Well, we’re going to make that determination. And you’re going to have something to do with that. And, look, we’re going to be guided also. You have some real strong feelings. The media — I’ll tell you what: The media, generally — I mean, I — I’m impressed. A lot of the media has been fair. I’m not used to fair treatment in the media. And, I don’t know, I don’t know how to handle it. But the media has really been — overall, I think the media has been pretty fair. Some not. I mean, I could tell you who, but what’s the point? But the media has really been fair. I mean, they view this as we’re all in a problem together and we’re going to win. We’re going to win. Please. It is. Yeah. Well, that’s not happening. I mean, I think they wrote us out, and that’s all right. But that’s not happening. As far as the mayor of New York, I’ll be honest — I didn’t know him well. He and I are obviously opposite persuasions. And we would go at it, but we didn’t — I don’t know if we ever spoke other than to maybe say hello a couple of times. I did down at the Memorial — World Trade Center Memorial once a long time ago. So I have spoken to him a lot — Mayor de Blasio — and we’ve really had incredibly productive discussions. I’ve gotten him a lot of people. We’ve gotten him a medical center. He’s asked for, at Elmhurst — I know Elmhurst hospital very well. I mean, that was an area of Queens that I grew up in. And, boy, you talk about an epicenter; that’s really the epicenter of the epicenter. That’s really something. We talked about it because that was, you know, very close to where I grew up. And — and, you know, knowing it — being so familiar with it, it’s incredible to see where they have the trucks. I don’t have to go into great detail. The refrigerated trucks coming up and — I’ve never seen anything like it. I’ve spoken with Mayor de Blasio a lot in the last week. We’ve helped him, I think, a lot. And I’ve really gotten to like him. I get along with him very well. Now, he wants us to do certain things, and we’ve produced. I mean, today, I spoke to him with the Secretary of Defense, Esper. And we had a great conversation, and we’re helping him get some of the things he needs. I don’t have to go into great detail, but he’s very happy about what we’re able to do for him today. And he’s like us: He’s working very hard. But I can’t say anything bad about Mayor de Blasio. I mean, my relationship with him over the last couple of weeks has been excellent. And we’ve done a good job for him, too. Please. Yeah. So we’re doing that. Great question. We’re increasing capacities. Right. We’re actually adding on, through the Army Corps of Engineers. This is a big job, and we’re doing it in many states — not just New York and California. By the way, Gavin Newsom has been terrific, I have to tell you — the governor of California. We’re getting along really well. We’re working hard for him. As you know, the hospital ship — the other hospital ship. And they are incredible. That just arrived in Los Angeles, fully stocked. But Gavin Newsom has been really good, and so many of the governors have been good. And these are governors that I’ve been fighting with about different things for a long time — the forest fires, in his case, and the border, and all sorts of things. And here we are, getting along very well. So — and I appreciate his nice words. I really do. I really appreciate it. It’s — and the people with me appreciate it. Do you have another question? Yeah. So — Good — good question. Yeah, well — I mean, look, we just started this. You know, we were just notified. And some of the governors have asked us to build hospitals through extensions, through portable hospitals, through things. And, you know, normally, this — in all fairness, this is done normally through local government. We don’t go into cities and expand a hospital that’s existing. But we’re doing it now because we really are equipped to do it. We have incredible people. And we’re expanding hospitals. We’re building many portable hospitals, not only Javits Center. We have four — plus, you have four medical centers. But we’re doing it in New Jersey — Governor Murphy. We’re doing it in other states. We’re doing it in California. We’re doing some in the State of Washington, despite the fact that I — I’m not appreciative of the way the governor speaks. We’re doing it in a lot of different locations. And we’re doing a lot of expansions. We’re also taking over buildings, and the city will go in or the state usually will go in, take over a building, and we go in and equip it and make it so that it’s now hospital functioning. They call it “hospital functioning.” We’re doing a lot of that. Again, this is normally done by governors and then give it to the city to do. You know, you bring it into the point. But we’re doing a lot of that, and they’re doing a great job — mostly done by the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. That, I don’t know. That, I don’t know. Yeah. Well, they say I had classified briefings a long time ago, which wasn’t true. But we’ve had briefings, and, as I know it, the governors have also had many briefings by the federal government. Oh, I think we knew — I think we knew for a while. But if you take a look, I was the first one to say to China — and I have great respect for China, I will tell you that. But I was the first one, when they had the problem, to say, “You can’t come in.” And if you go back, that’s a long time ago. Jon, please. Here’s what we’re going to have. Are you ready? We’re going to have more than — we’re manufacturing a lot of them now. We’re accumulating a lot. We’re taking a lot, through the act. We’re taking a lot. We’re actually taking them. And we’re going to have, in a very short period of time — and Peter is doing it, along with some very talented people. Some really talented people. It’s very impressive actually. But we’re actually taking a lot. We’re going to have plenty. And if for some reason — Jon, if for some reason you’re going to need even more, we’re going to be prepared. As an example, we now — we’ve given out thousands and thousands, which I think you’ll know. We accumulated thousands; we give them out. But we — right now, I think in the stockpile we have over 10,000. The reason we don’t want to distribute that is for exactly what you’re saying. If there’s a mad rush in New York or maybe in Louisiana or maybe someplace else, we don’t want to have given out all of those units — the ventilators — and then in those sections, we give them to Iowa, but they didn’t have a problem in Iowa, or we give them to Idaho, we give them to lots of different places. And now we have to try and get them back, which is never easy to do. No, no, Jon, what I’m saying is this: We are prepared for things that nobody has any idea that we’d be prepared. And you know what? When I took this over, it was an empty box. We didn’t have testing. We didn’t have anything. We had a broken system there. We had a broken system with stockpiling. We had a lot of broken systems. And I’m not just blaming President Obama. You go long before that. But in all fairness to all of the former Presidents, none of them ever thought a thing like this could happen. But we have, right now, 10,000 ventilators in stockpile. We are ready to go with those ventilators. What we don’t want is where we distribute the ventilators, like we did in New York and they didn’t need them, or they didn’t know, or they didn’t use them. If we need them in New York, we’re going to have plenty. Now, we’re getting a lot of ventilators in the next short period of time. A lot of ventilators are coming in the next short period of time. We’re manufacturing. We went to all of the companies; I read their names. We went to all of those companies. They are going to go, I would say, round the clock, Peter. Is that right? They’re going around the clock. Let’s put it this way. Let’s put it this way: We’ve distributed thousands and thousands already. Normally, these would be bought by states, just so you understand. Normally, these would be bought by governors. They were — I don’t want to say unprepared, but nobody was prepared for this. What we’ve done, nobody can even imagine. And, by the way, I’ve had governors tell me, including Democrat governors — they said, “We can’t believe you’ve been able to do this.” And you go to other countries — and we’re not only competing against states, because we don’t want to compete against states. We’ve had a couple of cases where states were buying and we were buying, and I said specifically, because I heard about it, “Pull back. Let the state buy it.” Immediately, the price goes way down, and they end up buying it. But we’re also competing against many countries, because many countries need the ventilators. That’s why I want to build more if possible. Jon, maybe we’ll take one more question. Jon. So here’s what I’ll tell you: I think we’re in really good shape. This is a pandemic the likes of which nobody has seen before. I think we’re in great shape. I think that, number one, we’ve distributed — a ventilator is a big deal. We’ve distributed vast numbers of ventilators, and we’re prepared to do vast numbers. I think we’re in great shape. I hope that’s the case. I hope that we’re going to have leftovers so we can help other people, other countries. Look — look, don’t be a cutie pie. Okay? You know, everyone who needs one. Nobody has ever done what we’ve done. Nobody has done anything like we’ve been able to do. And everything I took over was a mess. It was a broken country in so many ways. In so many ways other than this. We had a bad testing system. We had a bad stockpile system. We had nothing in the stockpile system. So I wouldn’t tell me what you’re telling — you know, like being a wise guy. Go ahead. Yeah. Well — Well, there may be something where we’re going to have to help states, because the states have been hurt very badly. And the beautiful thing about our country is: $6.2 trillion, because it is 2.2 plus 4. It’s $6.2 trillion. And we can handle that easily because of who we are, what we are. It’s our — it’s our money. It’s our — we are the ones. It’s our currency. We can handle it, and we can handle — I watched Jerome Powell the other day, and he did a good job. He said, “We’ll do whatever we have to do.” John, we have to do whatever we have to do. The priority is life and safety, and then the economy. Life and safety. Well, we’ll see. No, no, no. We’ll see. A lot of things can — Yeah. I tell them: If it’s your life and it’s your safety and if we need more time, they’re not going to have a problem waiting it out. It’s life, it’s safety, and it’s our country. But we have to take care of people. At the same time, we want to get them out. They want to get out. Our country was built on that. But we have to make sure it’s safe, and everyone knows that. Okay, one more question. Please. Go ahead. So, hydroxychloroquine, which is supposed to be the better of the two, seems to have some good backing. We’re going to see. Look, Governor Cuomo — we’ve given him 10,000 units; that’s a lot — and they’re testing it. It’s a malaria drug. It’s also a drug for arthritis. But — and it’s phenomenal for those two things, as you probably know, especially for malaria. But we’re going to find out soon. I hope it works. It’s — there are signs that it could be doing well. They are testing 10,000 units. That’s a lot. And I tell you what: I want to thank the FDA because they approved it immediately, based on the fact that it was already out for a different purpose. They approved it immediately. So, look, hydroxychloroquine is — is a very powerful drug for certain things, and it’s a very successful drug. There’s reason to believe that it could be successful here. Now, the reason I disagree with you — and I think Tony would disagree with me — but the reason I disagree with you is that we have a pandemic. We have people dying now. If we’re going to go into labs and test all of this for a long time, we can test it on people right now who are in serious trouble, who are dying. If it works, we’ve done a great thing. If it doesn’t work, you know, we tried. But this is not something that’s going to kill people. So, we can go in and we can test, or we can take our time. When I was with the FDA, you know, they indicated that, “Well, we’ll start working on it right away, and it could take a year.” I said, “What do you mean a year? We have to have it tonight.” If we don’t have it tonight — I want to test it immediately because it’s on the market in a different form. So, we know that. So, from a safety standpoint, at least, we know that. But you’re talking about giving it to people who, in many cases, are dying. So we want to do with the way — this is sort of like Right to Try. We got Right to Try approved. For — John, for 44 years or more, they couldn’t get it approved. We have the best labs, the best doctors. They couldn’t get it. I got it approved. Now, if somebody is terminally ill, and if we think we have something that’s going to work, we can actually use it; they can use it. And I’ll tell you what: You ought to do — when this is over, you got to do a story on that because we have had some tremendous results. It’s not even talked to me about. It’s just more fake news, John. Look, not even talked to me. They’re talking about — the only one I’ve heard that from — like, as an example, China pays 25 percent interest on $250 billion worth of product that they send in. That’s a lot. Everybody keeps saying, “Oh, are you going to suspend the tariffs?” Well, the answer is no. But President Xi never even brought it up last night. It wasn’t even discussed. It’s fake news. Tell the Wall Street Journal. You know, the Wall Street Journal does a lot of fake news too. It’s pretty amazing. So I want to leave — leave you by just saying I want to thank you for being here. I want to thank the American public and all of the people that have helped so much. And we’re going to give the podium to Vice President Pence, who has been incredible. And if he’s tired and if he’s not answering questions like he should, we have a great reason because he hasn’t slept in about four weeks. But I want to thank him because he has dedicated — I mean, he is a dedicated person — long before this. But the job he’s done has been fantastic. So I want to thank Mike, all the people on the task force, and FEMA, and Army Corps — everybody. You’ve been fantastic. Thank you all very much. Well, thank you all very much. This is a very important day. I’ll sign the single-biggest economic relief package in American history and, I must say, or any other package, by the way. It’s twice as large as any relief ever signed. It’s $2.2 billion, but it actually goes up to 6.2 — potentially — billion dollars — trillion dollars. So you’re talking about 6.2 trillion-dollar bill. Nothing like that. And this will deliver urgently needed relief to our nation’s families, workers, and businesses. And that’s what this is all about. And it got a 96 to nothing. And, I don’t know, what was the number in Congress? A voice? It was fantastic. That’s pretty amazing. That’s about the same thing. Right, Kevin? So, that’s fantastic. But I want to thank Republicans and Democrats for coming together, setting aside their differences, and putting America first. This legislation provides for direct payments to individuals and unprecedented support to small businesses. We’re going to keep our small businesses strong and our big businesses strong. And that’s keeping our country strong and our jobs strong. This historic bill includes the following: So, things like this have never happened in our country. We’ve had tremendous results on the respirators. We’ve had great results on just about everything we’re talking about. Boeing just announced that they’re going to be making the plastic field shields — the actual shields, which are hard to come by, and they’re going to be making them by the thousands a week. And the ventilators, which is probably the most difficult because it’s like — it’s like building a car — we will be announcing thousands of — are going to be built and we have them under contract and we have fast deliveries. As you know, we delivered thousands to New York. And unfortunately — they were delivered to a warehouse, which was good — unfortunately, they didn’t take them, but now they’re taking them. New York is now taking them and redistributing them around the areas that they need. So you have also $3.5 billion to states to expand childcare benefits for healthcare workers, first responders, and others on the frontlines of this crisis, and $1 billion for securing supplies under the Defense Protection Act. And, as you know, I’ve enacted the act. We’ve used it three or four times. I pulled it back three times because the companies came through, in the end. They didn’t need the act. It’s been great leverage. I have instituted it against General Electric. We thought we had a deal for 40,000 ventilators and, all of the sudden, the 40,000 came down to 6,000. And then they talked about a higher price than we were discussing, so I didn’t like it. So we did — we did activate it, with respect to General Motors. And hopefully, maybe we won’t even need the full activation. We’ll find out. But we need the ventilators. I said hello today — I called him — a wonderful guy, Boris Johnson. As you know, he tested positive. And before he even said hello, he said, “We need ventilators.” I said, “Wow. That’s a big statement.” And hopefully, he’s going to be in good shape. I just spoke to Angela Merkel, and she’s quarantined also. She is right now, for a period of two weeks, being forced to stay in her house. So this is just an incredible situation. Last night, I spoke to President Xi. We talked about the experience that they had in China and all of the things that have taken place. And we learned a lot. They’ve had a very tough experience, and they’re doing well and he’s doing well. President Xi is doing very well. But we learned a lot and we have great communication together. We’re going to be sent great data from China — things that happened that they see that — you know, they’ve had a — they’ve had an early experience, and we’re getting all of that information. Much of it has already been sent. It was sent yesterday and sent to our scientists to study. So we’ll have more on that also. We’ll be discussing that at 5:30. I just want to thank the people behind me. They’ve been incredible friends. They’ve been warriors. They — there’s nobody tougher or smarter than the people standing alongside of me. And I think I want to start off by asking Mitch and then Kevin to speak, and then we’re going to go through a few of the folks in the room if they’d like to say something. But, Mitch, I’d like — I’d love to say a few words because you — this man worked 24 hours a day for a long time. This is the result. It’s the biggest ever — ever approved in Congress: 6.2 bill- — $6.2 trillion. So, you know, we used to get used to the billion. It used to be million, then it was billion, now it’s trillion. And it’s going to go a long way. It’s going to make a lot of people very happy. Mitch McConnell, please. Thank you. I’d love to shake your hand, but Anthony would get angry at me if I did that. So I better not do it. I can’t — it’s so natural. I just want to go back and shake his hand. They’ve done such an incredible job. Kevin, please. Very special. Mike Pence? Mike? Could you please say something? You’ve been working very hard, in charge of our task force. And then I’d like to ask Steve to say a few words. Thank you very much, Mike. And Steve Mnuchin, you know how hard he’s been working. And, Steve, please say a few words. Great job, Steve. Gene? Please. Thank you, Gene, very much. Dr. Fauci, you may want to just say for a minute what hit the world. Something hit the world, and the world maybe will never be the quite same. But we’re going to make it a great place anyway. But certainly, you could maybe say a few words about it, please. Thank you, Tony. Thank you very much. Deborah, perhaps you could say a few words or so about — Great job you’re doing too. Thank you. Kevin, please. And I’m just saying, as Kevin is saying that, 20 days ago — a couple of days longer than that, maybe — we had a smooth-running, beautiful machine. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. We had the highest stock price we’ve ever seen. It went up, I think, 151 times during the course of the presidency. And then we got hit by the invisible enemy, and we got hit hard. But it wasn’t just us, it was 151 countries, I think, as of the — as of this morning. And you call Germany and speak to Angela — she’s in quarantine. And as you know, Boris was diagnosed that he’s positive. And all of the things that are happening, it’s hard to believe what’s gone on just in a short period of time. And because of the talent behind me and lots of other talent in government, what we’ve done — this is a big part of it, obviously, but not the biggest part. Everybody has pulled together. Our nation has pulled together. The spirit is incredible. The people have pulled together more than anyone and better than anybody. And they’re doing really, really well. But just to think how life can change where you go, 20 to 22 days ago, everything is perfect, we’re looking forward. I’m saying, “When are we going to hit 30,000? I want 30,000.” That means more jobs and more everything. And then, one day, we get hit with this thing that nobody ever heard of before. Nobody ever even heard of before. And now we’re fighting a different battle. But I really think, in a fairly short period of time, because of what they’ve done and what everyone has done, I really think we’re going to be stronger than ever. And we’ll be protected from a lot of this. A lot of the things, Anthony, that we’ve done now — that we’re doing now — are going to protect us in the future if this should happen again. From testing to so many other — Even stockpiles. Right? Yeah, the vaccines, hopefully. And vaccines, cures, therapeutics — whatever you want to call it — it’s a lot of progress. And I think on that score, I think we’re going to do a lot of progress on vaccines. We’re making, perhaps, a lot of progress on cures and therapeutics. We’ll be letting you know. Anybody else have anything? Greg, please. Go ahead, fellas. No, it’s not. Yeah. Thank you very much. Appreciate it very much. Thank you very much. And, you know, Eric worked so hard. You all know Eric. And he was at Steve’s side the whole way. And where is our man? Do I see Larry? Yeah, Larry. The two of them. How about Eric and then Larry say a couple of words and Thank you very much. And Steve is going to work very hard on getting the money out quickly, and hopefully it can be distributed very quickly, especially when they have some old computer equipment that they have to use. But you’re going to work on that very hard. Larry, please. Larry Kudlow. I think that too. I think we’re going to have a tremendous rebound at the end of the year — toward the end of the year. I think we’re going to have a rebound like we have never seen before. Even now it wants to rebound. You can see it, feel it. It wants to rebound so badly. And, you know, we’ve had those really big — I guess, the biggest-ever stock market surge two days ago. And yesterday, it was great. Three biggest days in the history of the stock market. It wants to rebound so badly, but we have to get rid of the bug, we have to get rid of the virus. Now, I’m going to sign this, and it’s a great honor — $6.2 trillion. I’ve never signed anything with a “T” on it. I don’t know if I can handle this one, Mitch. We can’t chicken out at this point, can we?. I don’t think so, huh? All right. Thank you all. Good. I wanted them to be a nice signature. Come on, fellas. Come on over here. Elaine. What a job she’s doing with transportation. How’s transportation? Okay? I do. I do. Anthony? Thank you. Thanks, Tony, very much. Bob Lighthizer, thank you very much. Bob was a little less involved in this. He’s too busy making trade deals. Okay? You have one? You definitely have to have one. Go ahead. You’re all set. Thank you, everybody. So we’re going to have a 5:30 news conference in the same location. Seems to be doing quite well. And we appreciate everything. And we really appreciate the fairness, at least from most of the press. We really do. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. That’s right. Well, he made a little joke about a man named Congressman Massie. I thought he was totally out of line — Congressman Massie. Because of that, I guess a lot of people had to come back, and they had to go into a place, which, frankly, we’re not supposed to be at, you know, in light of — of what we’re doing with Deborah and Tony and all of the professionals. So people had to come back, and just no reason for it. So John Kerry made a little joke out of it, and I agreed with his joke. And I said, I never knew he had that kind of a personality. But we actually put it up, and he was right. Okay, we’ll see you in a couple of minutes, folks. Thank you very much. Hello, everybody. Hello. Thank you very much. Thank you. Beautiful day. Very good what you’re doing. Look at all those empty seats. Never seen it like that. Oh, boy. Well, how the world has changed. How the world has changed, right? But it’s going to end up being better than ever. I want to thank you very much for being here. And I’d like to update you on the steps we’re taking on our ongoing fight to defeat the virus. This morning at 7:55, I spoke to the leaders of the G20. Had a great meeting. And we have a lot of different ideas, a lot of good ideas. We’re working together. The leaders gathered virtually around the world to discuss the whole subject of the problem that, right now, 151 nations have got. We had: • President Alberto Fernández of Argentina • Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia • President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil • Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada • President Xi of China • President Emmanuel Macron of France • Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany • Prime Minister Modi of India • President Widodo of Indonesia • Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy • Prime Minister Shinzō Abe of Japan. Congratulations to Japan on making a great decision on the Olympics. Going to make it next year, 2021. • President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico. I want to thank the President of Mexico for having done such a great job with respect to the military. We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our southern border, and very few people are getting through — I can tell you that. And we got to keep it that way. And we have a great relationship with Mexico now. • President Putin of Russia • King Salman of Saudi Arabia • President Ramaphosa of South Africa • President Moon of, as you know, a country that we spend a lot of time in: South Korea. We’re working very hard on that. • Prime Minister Sánchez of Spain • President Erdoğan of Turkey • Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom • President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen • President of the European Council Charles Michel • United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres • World Health Organization Director Tedros Adhanom • World Bank President David Malpass • and International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva So, that’s a big group but it’s a great group. It’s — and they were all there — every one of them. And we talked about the problem. And hopefully it won’t be a problem for too much longer. The United States is working with our friends and partners around the world to stop the spread of the virus and coordinate our efforts. We discussed how vitally important it is for all of our nations to immediately share information and data — and we’ve been doing that, to a large extent, but we’ll do it even more so — and to inform our — I guess you could say inform each of us on the fight that we’ve got going one way or the other. It’s a little bit different, but we’re handling it a little bit in different ways. But there is great uniformity, I think. We had a — it was a terrific meeting. Tremendous spirit among all of those countries. You had 20 countries plus the other people that I mentioned. And tremendous spirit to get this over with. After the meeting with the world leaders, I spoke with the governors of our 50 states and territories. Our team has been in constant communication with the governors, and we had a terrific meeting. Somebody in the fake news said that one of the governors said, “Oh, we need Tom Brady.” I said, “Yeah.” He meant that in a positive way. He said, “We need Tom Brady. We’re going to do great.” And he meant it very positively, but they took it differently. “They think Tom Brady should be leading the effort.” That’s only fake news. And I like Tom Brady. Spoke to him the other day. He’s a great guy. But I wish the news could be — could be real. I wish it could be honest. I wish it weren’t corrupt, but so much of it is. It’s so sad to see. Just so sad to see. We had a great meeting. I tell you what: I’m sure you have tapes of the meeting. I’m sure that you were able to get tapes very easily. So you had 50 governors-plus. And if you had tapes, you’d see it was really — I mean, there was no contention. I would say virtually none. I would say maybe one person that was a little tiny bit of a raising of a voice, a little wise guy, a little bit. But he’s usually a big wise guy. Not so much anymore. We saw to it that he wouldn’t be so much anymore. But he is — we had a — I mean, I would rate — Mike was there; a lot of the folks in the back were there. And it was a — it was a great meeting. It took place at about 12 o’clock. So we went from the G20 to the governors. We also spoke about the economic relief with the governors and the package that we’re moving through Congress to deliver much-needed financial assistance to hardworking families and small businesses. I want to thank Democrats and Republicans in the Senate for unanimously passing the largest financial relief package in American history, 96 to 0. And I have to say it’s the largest, by far, and I’m profoundly grateful that both parties came together to provide relief for American workers and families in this hour of need. The House of Representatives must now pass this bill, hopefully without delay. I think it’s got tremendous support. When you’re at 96 to nothing — and, as you know, a couple of those people are quarantined, and one — Rand Paul — is — he’s actually got it. But he’ll — he’ll be better. He’s been a great guy. He’s been a great friend of mine, actually. The massive $2.2 trillion relief package includes: • Job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that keep their workers on the payroll. That’s pretty good. Loan forgiveness — keep the workers on the payroll. That’s pretty good. • Direct cash payments will be available to American citizens earning less than $99,000 per year; $3,400 for the typical family of four. • Expanded unemployment benefits. The average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100 percent of their salary for up to four full months. These are things that — by the way, we have plenty more to go and — but they’re things that nobody has ever had any package like this done. And I just want to thank them. Hopefully, it’ll get approved equally easily in the House, really. I think it will go through pretty well. From what I hear, virtually everybody. • Critical support for the hardest-hit industries with a ban on corporate stock buybacks and tough new safeguards to prevent executive compensation abuse. • Over $100 billion for our amazing doctors, nurses, and hospitals. • $45 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund, more than doubling the amount available. This is tremendous stuff. • $27 billion for the coronavirus response, including $16 billion to build up the Strategic National Stockpile with critical supplies including masks, respirators, and all sorts of pharmaceuticals. • $3.5 billion to expand assistance to childcare providers and childcare benefits to healthcare workers, first responders, and others on the frontlines of the crisis. And these are really brave, incredible people, I have to say. And some of them are getting sick, and some of them are getting very sick, and some of them don’t even recover. They’re incredible people. • $1 billion for Defense Production Act procurement. We are, as you know, using the Act, but we use it only when necessary. We use it as leverage. We generally don’t have to use it to accomplish what we want to accomplish. As of today, FEMA has shipped over 9 million N95 masks, 20 million face masks, 3.1 million face shields, nearly 6,000 ventilators, 2.6 million gowns, 14.6 million gloves. And we’re sending more every day, and we’ve got tremendous amounts of equipment coming in. A lot of great companies are making equipment right now. The ventilators, obviously they take a little longer to make, but we have a lot of companies making them. And we’re going to be in great shape. We took over an empty shelf. We took over a very depleted place, in a lot of ways. As you know, the testing is going very, very well. And that was obsolete and broken, and we fixed it and it’s been going really good. And I think, very importantly, the stockpile — we’re really filling it up, and we fill it up rapidly, but we get it out. Sometimes we have it sent directly to the states instead. And again, the state has to be doing this kind of a thing also. We’re sort of a — we look — we look from behind a little bit and we look at how are they doing, and if they need help, we do it. But it’s their first responsibility. Sometimes they just can’t get it, but we load it up and we send it out. But if we can, we have it sent directly to the state. We want it to go directly to the point where we want it. I can now announce something that I think is incredible, what they’ve done in the Navy, because the incredible naval hospital ship the USNS Comfort — which is incredible, actually, when you see it inside — will be underway to New York City on Saturday. So it’s going to be leaving on Saturday, rather than three weeks from now. They did the maintenance quickly, and it was going to be there for quite a while longer — another three or four weeks. And it should be arriving — I told the governor 20 minutes ago, Governor Cuomo, that the ship will be arriving in New York Harbor on Monday. I think I’m going to go out and I’ll kiss it goodbye. I’ll go — I’ll go to — it’s in Virginia, as you know. And I will go and we’ll be waving together because I suspect the media will be following. John, are you going to be following? Maybe. You never know. It’s a great ship. It’s a great vessel, is right. So, if you want to go, I’ll see you there. And if you don’t, that’s okay. After being fully loaded with medical supplies, it’s going to be — it’s loaded up to the top. And it’s over at the Norfolk Naval Base; that’s where it departs. It is expected then to — I mean, we’re saving about three to four weeks by the incredible work done by the Navy. And I actually look forward to Saturday to see it go. The ship will arrive, and I believe it’s going to get a little bit of a ceremony. There’s something very beautiful about it. It’s an incredible piece of work. Going to be landing at Pier 90 in Manhattan to provide hospital surge capacity for the New York metropolitan area. So it’s a surge capacity. They may use it for this or they may have other people coming in from hospitals, unrelated to the virus, and then they’ll use those hospitals on land. They’ll use those hospitals for the virus. But we’ll see how they do it. They could do it either way — one way or the other, whichever one is best. But it could be — because it’s set up so well for a regular hospital, that they may take people out of hospitals and then use those rooms for the virus. The National Institute of Health and the private sector, working closely with the FDA, continue to collaborate to discover and test treatments and therapies that can effectively reduce the duration and symptoms of the virus and help — very much help people to recover. And I’m firmly committed to bringing these treatments to market very quickly. We have a — we have a lot of tests going on with regard to different medicines. And I hope — I hope we get lucky. I hope we hit. A lot of talented scientists and doctors are working on therapeutics, a cure, vaccines. I think we’re doing very well. Tony may speak to that a little bit later, but I think we’re doing very well with regard to the vaccines. I think we’re doing well with regard to a lot of the things I just mentioned, but we’ll have to see what happens. We’re going to know fairly soon about a lot of them. But it’s very advanced, and the vaccines are very advanced, prior to, as you know, a fairly reasonably long test period of, in that case, over a year. Every American should be proud of the incredible spirit our country has brought to this effort. It’s been incredible. Citizens from all walks of life have come together to turn the tide in this battle. We’re witnessing the extraordinary power of American unity like a lot of people have never seen. Even getting a vote — you’re talking about trillions of dollars, and you get a vote of 96 to nothing. We are waging war on this virus using every financial, scientific, medical, pharmaceutical, and military resource to halt its spread and protect our citizens. I want to express our tremendous thanks to the American people for continuing to practice social distancing — like you people are practicing right here; I don’t know, this room may never be the same — maintaining good hygiene, and follow government guidelines. Vice President Pence lifts up that card every time. And it’s not very complicated, but hopefully you can do that. And your commitment will make all the difference in the world. And that’s — one of the big ones will be: For a while, stay home. Just relax. Stay home. We’re making a lot of progress. As we continue to gather more information and accelerate the testing — where we’re doing record numbers of tests now, far more than any other country has done. I told you yesterday: Eight days here — because you heard so much about South Korea. The media kept talking, “South Korea, South Korea.” We have a great relationship with President Moon in South Korea. But when I hear so much about South Korea — So, in eight days — in eight days, we do more testing than they did in eight weeks. And it’s a very highly sophisticated test, too. We’ll be able to deploy even more data-driven and targeted approaches to slow the — ultimately, you know, it’s a very devastating thing, but we will vanquish this virus. And it’s — a lot of progress has been made. That’s why earlier today I sent a letter to America’s governors, describing how we will be using the data to update existing guidance on social distancing, which will be developed in close coordination with our nation’s public health officials and scientists. Because of the sacrifices of our great doctors and nurses and healthcare professionals, the brilliance of our scientists and researchers, and the goodness and generosity of our people, I know that we will achieve victory and quickly return to the path of exceptional health, safety, and prosperity for all of our citizens. We have to get back to work. Our people want to work. They want to go back. They have to go back. And we’re going to be talking about dates. We’re going to be talking with a lot of great professionals. But this is a country that was built on getting it done, and our people want to go back to work. I’m hearing — I’m hearing it loud and clear from everybody. So we’ll see what — what happens. We’re going to have a lot more information early next week, and we’ll be reporting that back. But I just want to leave it with you: We have to go back. This is the United States of America. They don’t want to sit around and wait. And they’ll be practicing — and, by the way, a lot of people misinterpret when I say “go back.” They’re going to be practicing, as much as you can, social distancing and washing your hands and not shaking hands and all of the things that we talk about so much. But they have to go back to work. Our country has to go back. Our country is based on that. And I think it’s going to happen pretty quickly. I think it’s going to happen pretty quickly. A lot of progress is made, but we got to go back to work. We may take sections of our country. We may take large sections of our country that aren’t so seriously affected, and we may do it that way. But we’ve got to start the process pretty soon. So we’ll be talking to you a little bit more about that next week. And with that, if you have any questions, you could ask. And then I’m going to have the Vice President stay behind, and he’s going to take questions and also introduce some of the people. You can ask them some questions. John, please. Yeah. No. Not at all. Oh, sure. Well, it’s nobody’s fault — certainly not in this country. Nobody’s fault. We got very lucky when we made a decision not to allow people in from China at a very early date. I say that because some people don’t want to accept it. But this was a great decision made by our country, or there’s — the numbers that you’re talking about — we’re a big country; they’d be far greater, far bigger. So when I heard the number — I mean, I heard it could be 6 million, could be 7 million. It’s 3.3 or 3.2. But it’s a lot of jobs. But I think we’ll come back very strong. The sooner we get back to work — you know, every day that we stay out, it gets harder to bring it back very quickly. And our people don’t want to stay out. So I know those numbers, John, but I think you’ll see a very fast turnaround once we have a victory over the “hidden enemy,” as I say. It’s a hidden enemy. Sometimes a hidden enemy is a lot tougher than somebody that stares you in the face, right? So we’ll see what happens. But, I mean, they’re fully expected numbers — at least. I mean, at least. Steve, please. Yeah. Well, we have very strong deployments on the southern border, as you know, with Mexico. And we had some troops up in Canada. But I’ll find out about that. I guess it’s equal justice, to a certain extent. But, in Canada, we have — we do have troops along the border. You know, we have a lot of things coming in from Canada. We have trade — some illegal trade that we don’t like. We have very strong sanctions on some. We have very strong tariffs on dumping steel. And we don’t like steel coming through our border that’s been dumped in Canada so they can avoid the tariff. You know, I charge a lot of tariff for the steel. And it’s been great for our steel companies because now they can really go — you look at what’s happened with steel. It’s been pretty incredible. But we’ve taken in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs on steel, and much of it comes in from China, but they can come through the Canadian border, too. So we’re always watching for that. No, I think it’s a tribute to our testing. You know, number one, you don’t know what the numbers are in China. China tells you numbers, and — I’m speaking to President Xi tonight, I believe, and we’ll have a good conversation, I’m sure. But you just don’t know, you know, what are the numbers. But I think it’s a tribute to the testing. We’re testing tremendous numbers of people and every day — the way the system works. And I want to thank, especially, Roche has been fantastic. Great company. They’ve done a tremendous amount. Deborah was telling me before that they were really — they’ve really stepped up to the plate and done great, as have other of the companies, but it seems that they’re really doing it particularly well. So, you know, we’ll see what happens there. But it’s a tribute to the amount of testing that we’re doing. We’re doing tremendous testing. And I’m sure you’re not able to tell what China is testing or not testing; I think that’s a little hard. No, I didn’t say that. No, you’re wrong. I didn’t say that. I said some people were projecting that it would be 6 or 7, and it’s, I believe, 3.3. Yeah. So — well, I mean, the things I just read to you are being considered and other things are being considered. People are going to be getting big checks. And it’s not their fault. What happened to them is not their fault. So we’re doing — we’re doing a lot of different things on health insurance. We have meetings on it today. We’re taking care of our people. This is not their fault what happened, and we’re taking care. We’re starting off by sending them very big checks. I think, for a family of four, it’s about $3,000. And we’re taking care of our people. We’re taking care of our workers. This was not — you know, as I say, this was not a financial crisis; this was a health crisis, a medical crisis. We’re going to take care of our people. Please. Yeah. Please. Restaurant. Well, I hate to — I know the business very well, I understand the restaurant business. It’s a very delicate business. It’s a business that — that — it’s not easy. You know, I always say, in a restaurant business, you can serve 30 great meals to a person or a family, and they love it; one bad meal — number 31 — they never come back again. It’s a very tough business. But there are great people that run restaurants. And I’ve heard 3 percent could be lost and you could go as high as 10 or 11 percent, but they’ll all come back in one form or another. It might be a different restaurant, but it’s going to be a great business for a lot of people. And we’re making it easy for people to — look, what we’re doing — what we’re doing in terms of loans, what we’re doing in terms of salaries — they’ll all come back. It may not be the same restaurant, it may not be the same ownership, but they’ll all be back. Yes, sir. Please. Well, I talked about the Defense Production Act a lot. And I’ve — you know, I’ve enacted it. I have it. I can do it with a pen. And we have actually used it on two minor occasions and then we could withdraw it. But, for the most part, the companies — we don’t need it. We say, “We need this,” and they say, “Don’t bother. We’re going to do it.” I mean, we — we’re dealing with Ford, General Motors, 3M. We’re dealing with great companies. They want to do this. They want to do this. They’re doing things that — that frankly, they don’t need somebody to walk over there with a — with a hammer and say, “Do it.” They are getting it done. They’re making tremendous amounts of equipment. Tremendous amounts. And when this is over, we’re going to be fully stockpiled, which they would have never been, except for a circumstance — this was — this was something that nobody has ever thought could happen to this country. I’m not even blaming — look, we inherited a broken situation, but I don’t totally blame the people that were before me and this administration. Nobody would have ever thought a thing like this could have happened. But the Production Act — Defense Production Act — is a wonderful thing, but I just haven’t had to use it. They know it’s activated. They know I can use it. Maybe that frightens them a little bit. You know, it’s got tremendous power. But I haven’t had to. Please. Go ahead. Where are they? They’re all outside, trying to get in. I know. So, I’m a big fan of Senator Hawley. And I also like the idea. There were some senators that didn’t want to do anything like Carnival — great company — but they’re based in different places. I won’t tell you where. I could tell you exactly where they’re based, but I won’t do that. But they’re based in actually more than one place, as you know. Ships are registered in different locations. I do like the concept of perhaps coming in and registering here, coming into the United States. It’s — you know, it’s very tough to make a loan to a company when they’re based in a different country. But, with that being said, they have thousands and thousands of people that work there and, maybe almost as importantly, that work onshore, filling the ships with goods and products. And the cruise line business is very important. And I know Carnival, what a great job they do. Micky Arison. And I would think that we could stick with Senator Hawley and maybe really look at that very seriously. Look, it’s a big business. It’s a great business. It’s a — it’s a business that employs tremendous of number of people, outside of the ship itself. I mean, you look — you look at these ports. It’s loaded up with shops and — and people that are involved with the ship. So we’re going to work very hard on the cruise line business and we’re going to try and work something out, but I like the concept. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Sure. So, the airline business a very tough business. Over many years, it’s been very, very tough. It’s got everything. It’s got labor. It’s got very strong, powerful — you know, you look at the cost of these airliners. Everything is tough — very highly technological. You look at how complicated, how complex. It’s got unions. It’s got everything. The airline business, generally speaking, has unions. It’s a very tough business; always been a very tough business. With that being said, we have to keep our airlines going. And we’re going to be using some — now, maybe we’ll take a piece of the airlines for the country, for our country; where we loan money and we take a piece. It’s all fully ready. We’re ready to go. But if we didn’t do that, we’d end up with no airlines and we can’t do that. The airline business is very vital to our country. It’s a tough business. We have to understand that. So, not — I mean, I could tell you other businesses that are different kinds of business. They’re very good businesses, but airlines have always been very, very tough. Please. No. Please. Yeah. I didn’t call you, I called this gentleman. Who are you with? Who are you with? Yeah. Bloomberg News. How’s Michael doing? Good? No, I didn’t. I’m speaking to him tonight. It’s scheduled to go tonight. I’ll have a call with President Xi of China. I have a very good relationship. No, I didn’t like when they came up. And it — it wasn’t him. Somebody at a lower level — mid-level — we found out, pretty much. But they made a statement that our soldiers brought it into China. No, it came from China. And, you know, we just signed a very big deal with China. They’re paying us a lot of money in tariffs and other things. They never paid us 10 cents. Look, China has taken advantage of the United States — until I came here — with Sleepy Joe Biden and Obama and Bush and everybody else. I’m not blaming them; I’m blaming everybody. They were allowed to — $500 billion a year they were taking out. We had trade deficits that were so large nobody’s ever seen anything like it. And we’ve changed it. Look, now we’re taking in billions of dollars. And we gave some to our farmers because China, you know, they targeted our farmers. And our farmers are very happy and our farmers got through a very rough period because of what I was able to do — took the money from China and gave it to the farmers — and we had plenty left over after that. Now we’re going into a phase two negotiation with China. But we’re getting 25 percent on $250 billion and then we’re getting a lot on money after that. So we’ve never had a deal with China. They — China took advantage of the United States. And you know what? I don’t blame China for that. I blame the people that were right here because they should have never allowed it to happen. But the relationship with China has been a very good one. He never asked me to calm it down, no. Somebody might have spoken to somebody, but nobody spoke to me about it. I think it was time though, because, you know, I talk about the Chinese virus and — and I mean it. That’s where it came from. You know, if you look at Ebola, if you look at all — Lyme. Right? Lyme, Connecticut. You look at all these different, horrible diseases, they seem to come with a name with the location. And this was a Chinese virus. But I don’t have to say it, if they feel so strongly about it. We’ll see. But, you know, we have — we just made a great deal with China — great, hopefully, for both parties. But we’ve made a deal with China and we’re going to do another one, it looks like. They want to do it very badly. Maybe they want to wait, like Iran. They want to wait to see whether or not Trump gets beaten in the election because would they love to negotiate with Biden or somebody else other than me. They would love it. That’s their best dream in the world. So many others. So, there are some that maybe are, you know, waiting until after November 3rd, the Election Day. But I think we’re doing very well. It would be sad if we blew all of the advantages that we have right now because we’ve made unbelievable trade deal. Whether it’s Mexico, Canada, Japan, South Korea, China, and others, we have — we have changed the whole thing around. Please. Yeah. I think Deborah will talk to you about that, and Tony, in a few minutes. But I think we’ll start talking about that. Because we have to open up. We can’t say, “Let’s close.” The people don’t want to close, John. I say it again and again. The reason I do: because I want you to report it eventually. Go ahead, Steve. Go ahead, Steve. Yeah. It’s his call. I mean, I’ll talk to him whenever he wants to. I mean, you know, we’ll have, I think, a very fruitful call. We’ll have a good call tonight at 9 o’clock. Please. Yes, in the back. We’ll be talking about that, yeah. We’ll be talking about the virus. Yeah. In the back first, please. Yeah. Record. No, not yet. It hasn’t passed, but it’s come a long way. I think they think we’re doing a really good job, in terms of running this whole situation, having to do with the virus. I think they feel that — I think they feel the administration — myself and the administration — are doing a good job with people — keeping, very importantly, people informed. Because there was a great fear. And a lot of good things are happening. The mortality rate is at a, in my opinion — you’ll have to speak to Deborah, Tony, all of the others — but in my opinion, it’s way, way down. And that takes a lot of fear out. You know, it’s one thing to have it; it’s another thing to die. You know, when I first got involved, I was being told numbers that were much, much higher than the number that seems to be. And remember that people that have it — many people have it. I just spoke to two people. They had it. They never went to a doctor. They had it — absolutely had it — but they never went to a doctor. They never went to anything. They didn’t even report it. You have thousands and — hundreds of thousands of cases like that. So you have to add that to the caseload also. And the people that actually die, that percentage is — is a much lower percentage than I ever thought. That’s one of the reasons I say, “Look, we’re going to beat this and we’re going to get back to work.” Yes, please. Sounds appropriate. Well, no, no, I — we don’t look at a weak point. This is a serious problem for over 150 nations — the virus. I would say this: Maduro and Venezuela, we’re watching it very closely. We’ll see what happens. But that is correct: Those charges were made. Please. Yeah. We will give you that notification. We’ll let you know. Okay? Yeah. I want those guidelines to go, even when we’re open and fully operational. And, frankly, much of the guidelines, like shaking hands — maybe people aren’t going to be shaking hands anymore. You know, Tony had mentioned to me — Tony Fauci — the other day that — I don’t think he was — would be too upset with the concept of not shaking hands. He was saying that the flu would cut down — the regular flu would be cut down by quite a bit if we didn’t do that, if we didn’t shake hands. You know, the regular flu, of which — you know, you have a lot of deaths and a lot of problems with that too. So I think a lot of — a lot of great things are going to — When we’re open — just so — just to finish. When we’re open, as soon as we open, that doesn’t mean you’re going to stop with the guidelines. You’ll still try and distance yourself. Maybe not to the same extent because you have to lead a life, but I think the time is coming. How about one more question? Go ahead, in the back, please. Go ahead, please. Yes, I do. Very important to me. It’s very important to me. They have to — we have to protect our Asian Americans. It’s very — it’s a very important — that was a very important tweet to me because I didn’t like things that I was hearing. Please, go ahead. Well, I don’t know. All I know is this: Asian Americans in our country are doing fantastically well. I’m very close to them, as you know, and they’re doing fantastically well. And I think they appreciate the job we’re doing. But I did want to put that statement out — the social media statement — because, to me, Asian Americans are a great part of our country. Thank you all very much. We’ll see you soon. Thank you. Thank you very much. So, nice to be with you. America continues to gain ground in the war against the virus. I want to thank the American people for answering the call, following our guidelines, and making the sacrifices required to overcome this terrible threat. More aggressively we commit to social distancing — so important. Social distancing — such an important phrase. And we do it right now. The more lives we can save and the sooner we can eventually get people back to work, back to school, and back to normal. And there are large sections of our country — probably can go back much sooner than other sections. And we’re obviously looking at that also. People are asking, “Is that an alternative?” And I say, “Absolutely, it is an alternative.” I have now approved major disaster declarations for New York, California, Washington, Iowa, Louisiana, Texas, and Florida. That has great significance, as you know, and legal significance. We’re in a constant grouping, and I can say this: We have a large grouping of people that does nothing but communicate with the various officials, including we’ve been spending a lot of time with New York officials because that really is, by far, the hottest spot. They’ve got a number of very tough weeks ahead of them. The governor is doing a very good job. I spoke to the governor — Governor Cuomo — last night and this morning, and he mentioned that, in his remarks, that he’s using the — that we are using — and I think he feels, because he understands negotiation — he thinks we’re using very appropriately the Defense Production Act. And we are. We’re using it where needed. It’s a great point of leverage; it’s a great negotiating tool. But I’ve really — I will tell you, there’s tremendous spirit from people and tremendous spirit with respect to these companies. And I don’t have to use it very much at all. They want to do it. As you know, General Motors is involved; Ford is involved; 3M is involved; others are involved. And they’re all working very hard to produce product — different — all different products. We had very little product when we came. We built it up, and we’ve — we give it away as fast as we can to the different states. We’re also, as you know, building numerous hospitals and medical centers throughout certain areas in New York. It’s at the convention center, the Javits Convention Center. We’re doing four hospitals and we’re doing, throughout the state, four medical centers. They’re somewhat different. I want you to know that I’m doing everything in my power to help the city pull through this challenge. I’m working very hard on New York. It’s really, by far, our biggest problem. Maybe it will be; maybe it won’t be. But there’s a lot of good, capable people working on it with us, and our teams are working very well with the state representatives. We’re also doing some very large testings throughout the country. I told you yesterday that, in South Korea — and this is not a knock in any way because I just spoke with President Moon; we had a very good conversation about numerous other things — but they’ve done a very good job on testing, but we now are doing more testing that anybody, by far. We do more in eight days than they do in eight weeks. And we go up, on a daily basis, exponentially. So, it’s really good. By the way, while I’m on it, I also spoke with Prime Minister Abe of Japan last night, and I congratulated him on a wise choice. I think it’s going to be a fantastic Olympics — 2021. I think it’s going to be a fantastic Olympics. It was the absolute right decision to delay it for a full year and now have a full, beautiful Olympics. It’s going to be very important because it’s probably the first time, maybe ever, or certainly in a long time, that it was on a odd year. It always on an even year, they tell me. But he’s going to have a fantastic success, and now they’ll have even more time. He didn’t need any more time. Everything was perfectly ready. What a job they’ve done. But Japan — I want to congratulate Japan, the IOC, and Prime Minister Abe on a great decision. I think it’s going to be a fantastic Olympics. I told him I’ll be there. I’ll be there. As we fight to protect American lives, we’re also protecting American livelihoods. Democrats and Republicans in the Senate are very close to passing an emergency relief bill for American workers, families, and businesses. This legislation, in addition to the two bills I signed this month that includes, as you know, sick leave, and we have all sorts of things in for the workers, for families. But we have a tremendous paid sick leave provision for workers at no cost at all to the employers. And that’s a big thing: no cost to the employers. We want to get everybody back, working. Together, this $2.2 trillion legislative package is bigger than anything, I believe, ever passed in Congress. Perhaps, relatively speaking, if you go back — look during the FDR New Deal days — there was something that if you time-value it, you could say it was bigger. I don’t know. But this is certainly, in terms of dollars, by far and away the biggest ever, ever done. And that’s a tremendous thing because a lot of this money goes to jobs, jobs, jobs, and families, families, families. The Senate bill, as you know, includes: $350 billion in job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying their workers. They continue paying their workers. That’s what we want: We want them to keep their workers and pay their workers. This will help businesses keep workers in the payroll and allow our economy to quickly accelerate as soon as we defeat the virus. $350 billion in direct cash payments will be available for every American citizen earning less than $99,000 per year. That would be $3,400, very quickly, for the typical family of four. Nothing like that has ever been done in our country. Up to $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. The average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100 percent of their salary for up to four full months. Unlike normal unemployment benefits, independent contractors and the self-employed will be eligible. So you have independent contractors and self-employed people will be eligible for this. Over $100 billion to support the heroic work of our doctors, nurses, and hospitals. They’ve been incredible. $45 billion for Disaster Relief Fund. So we are setting up a fund of $45 billion for disaster relief. That’s more than doubling the amount available to support my national emergency and disaster declarations. It’s a doubling up. $27 billion to build up the Strategic National Stockpile with critical supplies, including masks, respirators, pharmaceuticals, and everything you can imagine — because it was very depleted, like our military was depleted. Now we have a brand-new military. Never had a military like this. We have equipment either coming or it’s already come. For the most part, it’s already come. But we have a lot of things that will soon be coming — planes, missiles, rockets, lots of things. But the stockpile was very depleted, like everything else. This will also include significant funding for the development of vaccines on top of the $8 billion we approved several weeks ago. Over $500 billion in support for the hardest-hit industries, with a ban on corporate stock buybacks, which is something I insisted on, and frankly, I tell you, the Republicans wanted that and the Democrats wanted that. We want them to use the money for the companies and the planes, or whatever they may be helping to get over this rough patch. And I don’t think it’s going to end up being such a rough patch. I think it’s going to, when we open — especially, if we can open it — the sooner, the better — it’s going to open up like a rocket ship. I think it’s going to go very good and very quickly. And you’re going to have some tough new limits on executive compensation also. They need the money. They’re going to have to, sort of, just make things work, because we’re interested in the workers, the jobs. And we’re interested in the companies because that’s really what fuels the workers in those great jobs. And we also have $16 billion in funding for the purchase of personal protective equipment — you know about that — such as masks and respirators through the Strategic National Stockpile. I encourage the House to pass this vital legislation and send the bill to my desk for signature. Without delay, I will sign it immediately. We will have a signing, and it’ll be a great signing and a great day for the American worker and for American families and, frankly, for American companies, some of which were having the best years they’ve ever had these last few years. And then, a little bit less than a month ago, they went into a position that they haven’t seen because of the hidden enemy, the virus. Earlier today, I spoke to leaders of many of America’s amazing nonprofit organizations. I thanked them for their unwaving [sic] and unwavering devotion to American people, to American families, to our nation. And they have been fantastic. They’ve been collecting supplies, distributing food, supporting healthcare workers, caring for vulnerable workers and families. I encourage them to continue to do it. But I’ll tell you, the nonprofits have been fantastic; they’ve been great. They’re great people, actually. I know a lot of them. Finally, I want to provide a brief update on the critical supplies. Through FEMA, the federal government has delivered, or is in the process of shipping 9.4 million N95 respirators — think of that: 9.4 million — 20 million surgical masks, and we have others that we think are going to be delivered pretty quickly. The whole world — you know, it’s not just us; it’s not just the States. The whole world is trying to get these things — in competition with many, many countries. I believe today you broke the 150 mark for the virus. We have 150 countries — over 150 countries where you have this virus. And nobody would ever believe a thing like that’s possible. Nobody could have ever seen something like this coming, but now we know, and we know it can happen and happen again. And if it does, somebody is going to be very well prepared because of what we’ve learned and how we’ve done. It’s been incredible, how we’ve done. Remember this: More tests than anybody, by far. And the news, the reporters, the media always likes to bring South Korea — they called me and they told me, “It’s amazing. Your testing procedures are amazing.” Plus, we have a test that’s a very high-level test, and it’s a test that’s very accurate. 3.1 million face shields, 2.6 million surgical gowns, 14.6 million gloves, and almost 6,000 ventilators, which go to the areas of greatest needs. We sent, over the last day, 4,000 ventilators to New York. And I spoke with the governor about that; he was happy. I spoke with the mayor also about that. Mayor de Blasio, he was very happy. It’s hard not to be happy with the job we’re doing — that, I can tell you. Throughout this national emergency, everyday heroes continue to step forward and demonstrate the extraordinary character of our nation, including the people behind me. By the way, these people are amazing. They are amazing people and they become — I don’t know, maybe I should just speak for myself, but to me, they’ve become friends. Maybe they don’t like me. Maybe they don’t; maybe they do. I don’t know. All I can tell you is they’re talented people. They work very hard. In Maryland, a 7-year-old boy used his own birthday money to buy meals for dozens of senior citizens. In Nevada, a college student recruited 90 of her friends to help deliver groceries and supplies to the most vulnerable. This is happening all over the country. Thousands and thousands of instances. I could stand up here all day and tell you about other things. In Minnesota, hundreds of medical students have volunteered to provide childcare for hospital workers, helping to keep our doctors and nurses on the frontlines, fighting to save lives. These inspiring Americans remind us that we all have a role to play in winning this great national battle. And it’s really a worldwide battle. We’re dealing with other nations all the time. The people here are — and I am a little bit — I take calls from a lot of people; they’re in trouble. A lot of countries are in big trouble. So now we will hear from our great Secretary of the Treasury. He has been working rather hard, I will tell you. Steve Mnuchin is a — he’s a fantastic guy and he loves our country, and he’s been dealing with both sides — Republican and Democrat. He, sort of, lived over in that beautiful building. It’s a very beautiful building. To me, one of the most beautiful buildings, actually, in the world. And he’s gotten to know it, Steve, very well. So if we could have a little update, Steve, it would be fantastic, as to how we’re doing and what it’s looking like. Thank you. Thank you very much, Steve. Great job. Day and night, right? Day and night. We was — that was — that was a lot of work. And we’ll see how it all goes. We still need a vote, Steve, don’t we? Huh? Do you have a question? Yes. Hopefully a long time. We’ll see. If we have to go back, we have to go back. We’re going to take care of the American worker. We’re going to take care of these companies that fuel this country and make the country great. It’s not their fault. It’s not their fault. But we think — And don’t forget, a lot of this is going to be — to keep companies that are very strong — AAA-rated companies, previously — to keep them going. And it’s going to be in the form of loans, so the money is going to come back. This money has — a lot of this money is coming back. Yeah. Well, I’ve been saying that for a long time. Well, we’re reliant on many countries where we give up our supply chains, we give up our factories, we give up our production facilities, and we can buy it someplace else for a little bit lower price. But it’s really costing us more when that happens, because we lose jobs, we lose everything, and we lose our independence. And we can’t let that happen. So we’ll be making some changes. We have been making those changes. I don’t know that we’ll need that, but I think it’s happening by itself. I think a lot of things are happening. Well, some people — we make the best medical equipment in the world, and you have some people like the European Union, they don’t take it, because they have specifications that don’t allow our equipment in because it’s designed in a different way. Even though it’s a better way, it’s designed. They’re all — they’re all playing games against us, okay? They’ve been playing games against us for years, and no President has ever done anything about it. But the European Union — if you look at medical equipment, we make the best medical equipment in the world, but we can’t sell it because — or not appropriately. And yet, we take their medical equipment in our country. We’re changing things, Steve. All of this is changing. But they have specifications so that our equipment — designed specifically so that our equipment can’t come into their countries. It’s a very terrible thing that’s happened to our country. And, let me tell you, some of the people that took the biggest advantage of us: our allies. You know, we talk about allies. They took advantage of us in many ways, but financially as well as even militarily when you look at — Look, I got — if you look at NATO, the abuse that was given to our country on NATO, where they wouldn’t pay, and we were paying for everybody. We were paying — now, because of me, they’re paying a lot. Now they’ve paid a 125, 135 million — billion dollars more. And then, ultimately, Secretary General Stoltenberg — who, I think, you would say is maybe my biggest fan — we got them to pay an additional $400 billion — billion — other countries. And — but — but you know that. And then there’s the trade. They make it — they make it almost impossible for us to have a fair deal. They know this. They know I’m just waiting. We have all the advantages, by the way. It’s going to be easy when I decide to do it. But this isn’t the right time to do it. But we’ve been treated very, very unfairly by the European Union. Please, go ahead. Well, I know the issue very well. We talked about it just a little while ago. I’ll let — Steve, I’m going to let you maybe discuss that. The one — the one good thing, when you think about that, people are going to get, actually, more money. But we don’t want to give a disincentive. But they have been talking about that. That’s a good question, actually. Yes ma’am. Please. So — Yeah. You know, I’ve been very much involved in that. And he was a great gentleman, and a great family. It’s just — I mean, I have to say this — and they’ve been making this statement to the family, I believe: But it’s not looking good. He wasn’t well for years anyway, in Iran. It’s not looking promising. We’ve gotten so many people back. We got two people back this week. But Robert Levinson, who was outstanding, he was — he’s been sick for a long time. And he had some rough problems prior to his detainment or capture. And we feel terribly for the family. No, I don’t accept that he’s dead. I don’t accept it. I mean, I’m telling you it’s not — it’s not looking great, but I won’t accept that he’s dead. They haven’t told us that he’s dead, but a lot of people are thinking that that is the case. I feel badly about it. What do you mean by my election success? No. No, no. I think the media — yeah. No, the media would like to see me do poorly in the election. And I think — I think — Just so you understand — are you ready? I think there are certain people that would like it not to open so quickly. I think there are certain people that would like it to do financially poorly because they think that would be very good as far as defeating me at the polls. And I don’t know if that’s so, but I do think it’s so that a lot of — that there are people in your profession that would like that to happen. I think it’s very clear — I think it’s very clear that there are people in your profession that write fake news. You do. She does. There are people in your profession that write fake news. They would love to see me, for whatever reason — because we’ve done one hell of a job. Nobody has done the job that we’ve done. And it’s lucky that you have this group here, right now, for this problem, or you wouldn’t even have a country left. Okay. Go ahead, in the back, please. Who are you with? Who are you with? I think that’s pretty much, huh? Yeah, I don’t know that that subject is going to come up. There is a lot of talk that that’s how this all happened. It came out of China. And they say that’s how it happened in China. So it’s something, maybe, will be talked about, but it’s not the top of my list. I think we’ll have a very — I think we’re going to have very good conference tomorrow. No, but I — we have tested more than anybody. I saw it. Yeah. How many? None. Okay? How many deaths are acceptable to me? None. Okay? None, if that’s your question. Look, I saw him. I saw his statement. We have tested, by far, more than anybody. We’re testing more than anybody right now. There’s nobody even close. And our tests are the best tests. They’re the most accurate tests. But if you’re saying we’re going to test 350 million people — I watched his statement; I disagree with it. We can go to certain states — I could name them now, but I’m not going to do that — but we can go to certain states right now. They have virtually no problem or a very small problem. We don’t have to test the entire state in the Middle West or wherever they may be. We don’t have to test the entire state. I think it’s ridiculous. We don’t have to do it. A lot of those states could go back right now, and they probably will. Because at some point in the not-too-distant future, certain states are going to come off the rolls. Maybe New York can’t and maybe California can’t. Maybe the State of Washington can’t, although if you look at them, their biggest problem was in one nursing home. Yeah, go ahead. Well, you know, you’re going to just look at that. But if you take a look at the states and many states that I’m talking about, they don’t have a problem. We have some big problems, but it’s confined to certain areas, high-density areas. So why would we test the entire nation — 350 [million] people? With that being said, I’m going to say it again: We tested far more than anybody else. We are — we have the ability to test — I mean, we’ve come a long way from an obsolete, broken system that I inherited. We have now tested, with the best test, far more than anybody else. And when I say “anybody else,” I’m talking about other countries. No country is even close. They came out with a statistic, I guess yesterday, that I heard from Dr. Birx where it’s for eight — eight days here, more than eight weeks in South Korea. And South Korea has done a good job. But we did in eight days more than South Korea did in eight weeks. That’s a big number. And we’re getting, I said before, exponentially better. Every day, it’s going up substantially. We have an incredible apparatus built now. But, no, I don’t want to test 350 million people. I think it’s ridiculous. Yes, please. With respect to what? Look, we have strong borders. Yeah. So, before I came here, we weren’t into borders. We had a country — people could come in. We had a whole different deal. Now we’re up to almost 164 miles. Think of that: 164 miles of wall. Big, beautiful wall. And in those areas, it’s very, very tough to come in. We’ve been very tough on the borders. I mean, where we have the wall built, nobody is getting through. Now, they’re going around, but that’s a long trip. If they’re going around, that’s the way they get through. But, no, I’m very strong on borders and I don’t want people coming in here. What I want is, if they’re going to come in, they have to come in legally. They have to come in through merit. We’re not having the people that you’re talking about come into our country. All right. Please. Yeah. Well, I’ll tell you what: I approved that, and I knew — it was $35 million, and we actually took off $10 [million]. But I’m a fan of that, although I haven’t spent time there because I’m far too busy. I’d love to go there evenings, but I’m too busy doing things because that’s more important for me than going there. But the Kennedy Center has suffered greatly because nobody can go there. It’s essentially closed, and they do need some funding. And I said, “Look…” — that was a Democrat request. That was not my request. But you got to give them something. It’s something that they wanted. You know, it works that way. The Democrats have treated us fairly. I really believe that we’ve had a very good back and forth, and I say that with respect to Chuck Schumer. I spoke to him a number of times. But, you know, they had requests also. So that was a request. They were at $35 [million] as you know, and it came down to $25 [million]. We got it down to $25 [million], and we agreed. I said, “That’s a lousy soundbite. That’s not a good soundbite.” But that’s the way life works. With that being said, the Kennedy Center, they do a beautiful job — an incredible job. David Rubenstein does a fantastic job. He is very much involved and he puts up a lot of money, and he does things that a lot of people wouldn’t be able to do or do. But they’ve been essentially closed. They have tremendous deficits that are built up. I mean, this thing has been devastating to it. So I didn’t have a big problem with it. But this was a request from the Democrats because of the fact that they have a facility that’s essentially closed up. Yeah. In other words, you couldn’t go there if you wanted to. If I wanted to go there tonight to look at “Romeo and Juliet” — I’d love to see “Romeo and Juliet” tonight, right? You know what would happen? They’d say, “Sorry.” Two hundred and fifty people or fifty people, whatever it might be down to. Go ahead. Well, I think there is a lot of — certainly a lot of talk that has been very unfair. I think that a lot of people feel that. It’s been very unfair. It’s been very — very much sided with China, and a lot of people are not happy about it. At the same time, Dr. Fauci and myself and other people –there are people on there that we like and we know. A lot of — I think your friends are on there. A lot of good people. A lot of good professionals. I don’t know, it’d be interesting to hear if you’d like to talk about the World — WHO. But the fact is that I have heard for years that that is very much biased toward China, so I don’t know. Doctor, do you want to you — do you want me to get you into this political mess? Hey, welcome to the group. You know, let — let me just tell you, I’ve heard that for years. I spoke to him yesterday. Seems fine to me. I don’t know. But we’re the ones that gave the great response, and we’re the ones that kept China out of here. And if I didn’t do it, you’d have thousands and thousands of people died — who would’ve died — that are now living and happy. If I didn’t do that early call on China — and nobody wanted that to happen. Everybody thought it was a — just unnecessary to do it. And if we didn’t do that, thousands and thousands of people would have died, more than what’s happened. So that’s it. All right, maybe one more. Steve, go ahead. No coordinate — we’re going to have a meeting with the 20 nations total, including us, and there’ll be — it’ll be a conference call tomorrow morning sometime. I look forward to people I know, I like. I think, in every instance, I like every one of them, but it’ll be an interesting call. You’ll be the first to know. Well, we’ll be talking. I’ll — I’ll be speaking — I’ll be speaking with Tony. I’ll be speaking with Deborah. I’ll be speaking with some of the people that they like and respect and they’re going to bring along with them. We’ll be speaking to Vice President Mike Pence and Steve, and we’ll be speaking to everybody. I’m not going to do anything rash or hastily. I don’t do that. But the country wants to get back to work. Our country was built to get back to work. We don’t have the — a country where they say, “Hey, let’s close it down for two years.” We can’t do that. It’s not our country. So we’re going to be talking, and it could be we’ll do sections of our country. There’s big sections of our country that are very, you know, little affected by what’s taking place. Then there are other sections that are very heavily affected, so there’s a big difference. But, no, I would say by Easter we’ll have a recommendation, and maybe before Easter. And at the end of the 15th day or even during the 15th day, I think we’ll have some kind of a recommendation. But our country wants to get back to work, Steve. I have had so many people — and they want to practice social distancing and they want to practice no handshaking. No handshaking. They’re not going to go walk around hugging and kissing each other in the office when they come back, even though they may feel like it. They’re going to do — they’re going to wash their hands more than they’ve ever done. They’re going to do all the things you’re supposed to do. But, Steve, you know what? It’s — it’s time. They want — people want to get back to work. I’m having — I get — you know, I get it from both sides, in all fairness, and maybe it’s a combination of both. Tony said before, a combination of both is — is sometimes very good. But there are areas that possibly, probably they won’t qualify. There are other areas that qualify almost now. So we’re going to have to see what happens, but it’ll be an interesting period of time. I’d like to get our country back. I have tremendous numbers of people wanting to go back. You have store owners where the store is sitting there. They don’t know what’s happened; they’ve got to get back. You have businesses that are going to be closed. The longer we stay out, the longer we do it — we want to go quickly. The longer we stay out, the harder it is to bring this incredible — we were having the most successful years that we’ve ever had in the history of our country. You saw what happened yesterday with the stocks, and today they’re up. I’m telling you, if Steve gets the deal done — the incredible incentive deal — it’s going to take care of people, it’s going to take care of our workers, it’s going to take care of companies that employ all these workers — small and big. By the way, I would say we spend more time on the small companies, Steve, than we did on the big companies. You know, people ask about that. We spend more time thinking about the small businesses than the big, and that’s been — you know that really fuels our country. We want to get back, and the people want to get back. We want to get our — our country going again and we’ll be able to do that. So, the Vice President is going to stay with you and going to take a few more questions, specifically, and I will see you tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you, Bill. Well, that’s true. Well, I think when I started seeing and reading about China, and seeing what was going on in China — Wuhan, specifically. It seemed to come mostly out of there — that area, the province. And when I saw that, and I saw the kind of death they were, you know, talking about on television, in the papers, and I started reading a lot about it. And, really, when I had to make a decision: Do I stop people from China and specifically that area — but from China — to come into the country? And everybody was against it. Almost everybody, I would say, was just absolutely against it. We’ve never done it before. We never made a decision like that. No. No. It was instinct. No. We had a large group of people right behind me in the Oval Office. And I made it — I consulted with Mike. But we made a decision. I made a decision to close off to China. That was weeks early. And, honestly, I took a lot of heat. Sleepy Joe Biden said it’s xenophobic. I don’t know if he knows what that means, but that’s okay. He said it’s racist, what I did. Thousands and thousands of more people — probably tens of thousands would be dead right now if I didn’t make that decision. And I must say, doctors — nobody wanted to make that decision at the time. It was very, very early. Call it luck or call it talent; it doesn’t matter. We made a great decision. I took a lot of heat from China. They weren’t happy with it. Now they understand it, and they’ve really — you know, we’re doing just fine. But they were not happy with it. I took a lot of heat from a lot of people. I really didn’t get — Sure. Yeah. When you say I took a lot of heat for that essentially, I really didn’t. I mean, a lot of people agree with me. Our country is not supposed to be — you know, it’s not — it’s not built to shut down. Our people are full of vim and vigor and energy. They don’t want to be locked into a house or an apartment or some space. They — it’s not for our country. We’re not — we’re not built that way. And I said, you know, I don’t want the cure to be worse than the problem itself — the problem being, obviously, the problem. And you know, you can destroy a country this way, by closing it down, where it literally goes from being the most prosperous — I mean, we had the best economy in the history of our country three weeks ago. And then all of a sudden, we’re supposed to shut it down. And then we’re supposed to pay people not to go to work. We never had that. We used to pay people to go to work when we had — when we had a problem. Oh, it’s very tricky. It is. It is. Well, you have to make the decision. Look, we lose thousands — I brought some numbers here. We lose thousands and thousands of people a year to the flu. We don’t turn the country off — I mean, every year. Now, when I heard the number — you know we average 37,000 people a year. Can you believe that? And actually, this year we’re having a bad flu season. But we lose thousands of people a year to the flu. We never turn the country off. We lose much more than that to automobile accidents. We didn’t call up the automobile companies and say, “Stop making cars. We don’t want any cars anymore.” We have to get back to work. Now, with all of that being said, it’s incredible what the American people have done and — and, honestly, the American people have learned. We’ve all learned together, between the shaking of the hands and the washing of the hands. Well, I used to wash my hands, and I always wash my hands a lot. I never was a big believer in shaking hands. Once I became a politician, you shake hands and you get a little bit used to it. Like, immediately, when I see you, I sort of apologize that I’m not shaking your hand, if you don’t mind. Yeah. I don’t even like to do — I never like to see that actually, but — Yeah, more than that. You’re — Well, we canceled the deal last night — Sure. I canceled the deal last night. I said, “I’m not going to say that deal.” Because Nancy Pelosi came in and put a lot of things in the deal that had nothing to do with the workers, that had to do with an agenda that they’ve been trying to get passed for 10 years. And I came in — I told Mike, I told a lot of people, “There’s no way I’m signing that deal.” I was getting calls from John Kennedy, from Ben Sasse, from many, many people — Lindsey. I was getting calls from a lot of different people, saying this deal — Tom Cotton — this deal is terrible, what they’ve done. They took a deal — you know, we almost had a deal, the day before. And it was between Schumer and Mitch. And it was really a good, solid deal. All of a sudden, they start throwing all of the little Green New Deal stuff in, right? And — the boardrooms, what they look like. And, “We want green energy. We want all this stuff. Let’s stop drilling oil.” They had things in there that were terrible. Windmills all over the place and all sorts of credits for windmills. They kill the birds and ruin the real estate, right? A lot of problems. I mean, a lot of problems. And I said, “I’m not signing this deal.” Now they’ve renegotiated it. Yeah, but we have great things for not only companies — forget the companies. The companies are nothing other than they are an employer of thousands and thousands of people. And they pay them very well. We want to protect our workers. I want to protect our workers. Workers first. But you have to protect companies like Boeing. They had a real bad year — let’s face it — with the problems, and they were in trouble before this. And then, all of a sudden, this happened. We can’t lose a Boeing and we can’t lose some of these companies. And companies — frankly, Bill — that were solid as — like, AAA companies. Because of what’s happened over the last couple of weeks, they go from AAA to being, like, they could use a hand. We can’t — right. We can’t lose those companies. If we lose those companies, we’re talking about hundreds of thousands of jobs. Millions of jobs. The faster we go back, the better it’s going to be. We have a pent-up energy that’s going to be unbelievable. We’re going to bring it back fast; I really believe that. She’s great. Do I have an earplug here? If I could do that — Okay. Right. Okay, well, first of all, I have to say that Harris is one of my favorite people. And I didn’t hear a word she said, and I was hoping it wasn’t too devastating a question. But she is a fantastic person, I have to say that, okay? Now, that I’ve said it, because I can’t hear Harris — But, no, the bill is very much focused on the small-business person. It’s very much focused on small companies, including restaurants and all sorts of small companies. And what people don’t realize — you know, you’re talking about these massive — we have the greatest companies in the world. You talk — you add them all up and the small businesses are just about equal in size to these massive companies, of which we have many also. It’s the engine of our country: small business. This bill is absolutely aimed at the small business and the worker, and the workers of those small businesses. And the owners — the owners are going to need help. They’re going to need some loans. They’re going to need things. And we’re going to be able to take care of them because we don’t want those small businesses to go out of business, nor do we want the big businesses to go out of business. Well, I’ll tell you, I never heard of such a thing. We’ve had flus where we lose 36,000. We’ve lost as many, I guess, as 78,000 people in one year. And they came in and they said to me, “Sir, we’re going to have to close the country.” I said, “What are you talking about?” “Well, we have a virus. It’s coming in.” And I knew that, and I made the early decision with China. So, I already — already closed it off to China, and that was a long time before they came in. But they came in — experts — and they said, “We’re going to have to close the country.” I said, “We’ve never closed the country before. This has never happened before. You’re going to — you’re saying…” I said, “Are you — are you serious about this? We are going to take this country that’s fully employed, where we have 160 million people working, and you’re telling me we have to close it and people are going to go out of business and they’re going to go bankrupt and they’re not going to have jobs? What are we talking about here?” This — don’t forget, this has never been done. We’ve had flus before. We’ve had viruses before. So this is something new. And this is why I say we have to — I gave it two weeks and — you know, I guess, by Monday or Tuesday, it’s about two weeks. And we’ll assess at that time and we’ll give it some more time if we need a little more time. But we have to open this country up. Well, I — look, I accept things. I understand things very quickly. I mean, I — I understood exactly what they were saying, but we can socially distance ourselves and go to work. And you’ll have to work a little bit harder and you can clean your hands five times more than you’re used to. You don’t have to shake hands anymore with people. That might be something good coming out of this. Although I must tell you, as a politician, it’s a lot warmer when you walk into a crowd and you’re shaking a lot of people’s hands. You love those people. They love me and I love them, you know. But — but it is a little bit colder. But you won’t be shaking hands for at least a while and things will happen. But we have to put the country to work. Look, you’re going to lose a number of people to the flu, but you’re going to lose more people by putting a country into a massive recession or depression. You’re going to lose people. You’re going to have suicides by the thousands. You’re going to have all sorts of things happen. You’re going to have instability. You can’t just come in and say, “Let’s close up the United States of America.” The biggest — the most successful country in the world by far. You know, when I came in, when I was elected — and you knew this number — China was going to overtake us in the year 2019. Wasn’t even close. We went way up, and they didn’t. We’ve done great. They pay us a fortune in tariffs and everything else. And yet, we have a good relationship with them. We just signed a trade deal. But we’re the number one in the world by far. And now a few people walk into the Oval Office and say, “Sir, we have to close up the country.” I said, “What are you…” I said, “What are you talking about?” One of the most difficult decisions I’ve ever made, because I knew that, when you do it, as soon as you do it, you’re going to drop — I mean, they’re talking about 20 or 25 points of GDP. Nobody’s ever heard of 25 points. If we went down a point, that’s a big deal. Now, all of a sudden, you’re basically turning off the country. I said, “This has never been done before. What are you talking about?” But we understand it; you have hotspots. But we’ve had hotspots before. We’ve had horrible flus. I mean, think of it: We average 36,000 people. Death. Death. I’m not talking about cases, I’m talking about death — 36,000 deaths a year. People die — thirty-six [thousand] — from the flu. But we’ve never closed down the country for the flu. So you say to yourself, “What is this all about?” Now — It’s never been done. Not good. I wasn’t happy about it. And I also knew that I had to do it beca- — Look, with Turkey — I give this as an example — and Syria, I said, “Sign a deal with the Kurds. Make peace.” Erdogan, he didn’t want to. He’s a — he’s a man who loves Turkey. And I have a very good relation- — I said, “Sign a deal.” He didn’t really want to, the Kurds didn’t really want to, and it went on — you know, the so-called Safe Zone, the — recently, a few months ago. I said, “Sign a deal. Do me a favor: Sign a deal. Get it done.” They didn’t really want to. All of a sudden, they start fighting — fighting, fighting, fighting. And it vicious. And other countries got involved. Now I say, “Let’s sign a deal.” They said, “Okay. We’ll sign a deal.” We needed a period because I don’t think — if I would have not done it, we would have been unbelievably criticized for not doing it. But it’s never been done before. Bill, somehow the word got out that this is the thing we’re supposed to be doing. Now, we’ve had some really bad epidemics and other things — I mean, we’re calling this a “pandemic,” but we’ve had bad epidemics. I’m sure they could have been called pandemics. But we never did a thing like this before. But I had to do it. It’s been very painful for our country and very destabilizing for our country, and we have to go back to work, much sooner than people thought. And people can go back to work and they can also practice good judgment. Well, what I was said was — What I said was perfect was my conversation with the head of the Ukraine. That’s what I really said is perfect, okay? That was another whole scandal, nonsense — a total, you know, witch hunt. But this one is a much different thing. We had other administrations — not just the last one — they built up a platform. They built up a test. But the test was no good. It didn’t handle large numbers of people. It was okay for a very small group, but not for a large group. So we had to break it down — No, I — we did not screw up — — and I don’t think CDC screwed up either. They had a test that would have worked for a small group of people — in other words, for a normal problem. I don’t think anybody could have — in all fairness to CDC — and this is a big government agency and there are very good people in there. But nobody ever expected a thing like this. Nobody would say that millions and millions of people would have been tested. So what we did is we broke that egg, we broke that system, and we’ve created a new system that now we’re doing unbelievably big numbers and it’s set for the future, should we ever need it again. I hope we don’t need it again. Thank you. Good. Well, I think they’re actually coming together. We had a bill that — it was done the other night and then, all of a sudden, somebody else injected herself in and all of — we didn’t have a — we didn’t have anything that was even remotely signable. But now I hear, just from a few minutes ago, that they’re doing well. And it’s for the workers, it’s for the people of the country. And I hear they’re doing pretty well, so we’ll see how it comes out. But it should have been — well, it’s like — I watched Governor Cuomo, and he was very nice. We’re building them hospitals. We’re building them medical centers. And he was complaining about — we’re doing probably more — definitely more for — than anybody else. And he was talking about the ventilators, but he should have ordered the ventilators. And he had a choice; he had a chance. Because right here — I just got this out — that he refused to order 15,000 ventilators. I’ll show this to Bill, but — take a look at that, Bill. What does that say? This says that New York Governor Cuomo rejected buying recommended 16,000 ventilators in 2015 for the pandemic — for a pandemic; established death panels and a lotteries instead. So he had a chance to buy, in 2015, 16,000 ventilators at a very low price and he turned it down. I’m not blaming him or anything else, but he shouldn’t be talking about us. He’s supposed to be buying his own ventilators. We’re going to help. But, you know, if you think about — if you think about Governor Cuomo, we’re building him four hospitals. We’re building him four medical centers. We’re working very, very hard for the people of New York. We’re working along with him, and then I watch him on the show, complaining. And he had 16,000 ventilators that he could have had at a great price and he didn’t buy them. Wow, is that great? Well, you obviously come from West Virginia and I love that state. And thank you very much, Joyce. I’ll tell you what: That’s great. I wish we had more people like Joyce, I will tell you. But, you know, it’s going to be a substantial amount of money — around $3,000 for a family of four and — assuming it all gets done, assuming we can get the Democrats to sign it. But it’ll be great. But, Joyce, I think that’s such a nice gesture. Really, I appreciate it. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think the Dow was helped by the fact that they — you know, there were theories that we were going to stay out for four or five months, and you can’t do that, as a count- — you’d destroy our country if you need a thing like that. And we’re going to be opening relatively soon. And we are — our time comes up on Monday or Tuesday, our — you know, the allotted two weeks, but we’ll stay a little bit longer than that. But we want to get open very soon. I think that was a big reason it’s gone up. I also think that the fact that the Senate and the House, I — we seem to be getting along as much as you can get along. We seem to be getting along now on a — on a bill. I think that maybe had even less of an impact than the fact that we’re opening up this incredible country — because we have to do that. I’d love to have an open by Easter. Okay? I would to have it open by Easter. I will — I will tell you that right now. I would love to have that — it’s such an important day for other reasons, but I’ll make it an important day for this too. I would love to have the country opened up and just raring to go by Easter. Good. That’s very good. Oh, absolutely. No. Because he has other things to do. No, we get along very well. I think it’s been very good. You would have heard about it if it wasn’t. I mean, it — every time he does — he’s not at a meeting — and sometimes other people, too — they said, “Why isn’t Dr. Birx at a meeting? Is there a problem?” And I said, “Deborah, could you please come to the meeting? Do you mind? Because…” No, they — they — you know, I have — I respect all of these people. These are great people. And Deborah is extraordinary and Tony is extraordinary. I get along with all of them. But if there’s — you know, they have other things to do. And, yesterday, we weren’t really talking about what he’s an expert on. We were talking about other things — a lot of other things. And, you know, they — I don’t think they should be at every press conference. Yeah, we’re fine. We’re fine. Harris, one thing I might add — Harris, one thing I might add that, to me, is so important: Again, we took something that was broken and we made it the model. And I didn’t even know — I just heard the number for the first time from Deborah — that in a short period of time, we’ve done more testing than South Korea. Now, you’re not going to read that in the newspapers because they don’t like to write things like that. But I’d love you to say that one more time because that — that’s a big number. We’ve done more than South Korea in a short period of time. We’re doing more now than South Korea, by a lot. What was that number? We’re going up — we’re going up — proportionately, we’re going up very, very rapidly. Every day, we’re going up higher. Do you blame the governor for that? Thank you. It’s true. Yes. It’s okay. I think it’s possible. Why isn’t it? I mean, we’ve never closed the country before, and we’ve had some pretty bad flus and we’ve had some pretty bad viruses. And I think it’s absolutely possible. Now, people are going to have to practice all of the social distancing, and don’t shake hands, and wash your hands, and all of the things that we’re doing now. But we have to get our country back to work. Our country wants to be back at work. That was not a controversial thing I said the other day. Our country wants to go back to work. And, again, the cure — it’s like this cure is worse than the problem. Again, people — many people — in my opinion, more people are going to die if we allow this to continue. We have to go back to work. Our people want to go back to work. Yeah. Well, they have their family fortune on the line the other way, too. They’re going to lose their jobs, maybe never to get them back. They’re going to lose their businesses, never to get them back. We want to start up as soon as we can because we’re going to have a very quick comeback if we do that. If we delay this thing out, you’re going to lose more people than you’re losing with the — with the situation as we know it. So I think it’s very important for our country to go back. And I’ve had many, many people — you know, when you said it was a little bit controversial, not to most people. Most people think I’m right about it. Now, whether we’re locked in a room, or whether we’re in our office and practicing all of the things that we’re supposed to be practicing — staying away from each other, you know, et cetera, not shaking hands, washing your hands all of the time. But our country has to get back to work. Otherwise — otherwise, it’s going to be very hard to start it up again. We can’t lose the advantage that we have. Bill, excuse me, just one second. You can’t compare this to 1918 where close to 100 million people died. That was a flu, which — a little different. But that was a flu where if you got it you had a 50/50 chance, or very close, of dying. I think we’re substantially under 1 percent because the people that get better are not reporting. So we only know people that go to doctors and go to hospitals, and we’re taking that. And we’re still a little bit above 1 percent. When you add all of the people — the millions of people that have it, that get better, we’re substantially less than 1 percent. And when they came to my office — don’t forget, they were saying 3 percent, 4 percent, 5 percent — this is a very big difference. No, we have to put our country back to work. Right. I do. I think, Doctor, it’s a very good thing. And Governor Newsom and I have been getting along really great. We’re sending the ship — the great hospital ship, as you know. And we are doing very well with, I think, almost all of the governors. For the most part, it really has become something. It’s — it’s — we’re dealing almost every day. We’re speaking to each other, whether it’s conference calls. Usually we’ll have 50 governors on the call at the same time. No, I think we’re doing very well. But, you know, it’s a two-way street. They have to treat us well also. They can’t say, “Oh gee, we should get this, we should get that.” We’re doing a great job, like in New York, where we’re building, as I said, four hospitals, four medic- — we’re literally building hospitals and medical centers. And then I hear that, you know, there’s a problem with ventilators. Well, we sent them ventilators. And they could have had 15- or 16,000; all they had to do is order them two years ago. But they decided not to do it. They can’t blame us for that. Yeah. Well, I think, Doctor, a thing like that could happen. But I really believe that we can do much of what we’re doing and we can do it from a work environment, instead of a — an environment where everybody is locked up and everybody is saying, “Oh, the business is gone. The business is gone and everybody is suffering depression.” You know better than anybody about depression. I’ve watched when you talk about depression. And that causes death and it causes a lot of problems. And, you know, these are people. They want to save their business. They don’t want to be locked up in some room or some apartment or house, and in the meantime, their restaurants close, their businesses close. They want to be saving their business. And I — I believe very strongly, you’re going to lose far more people by going that way than you are if we kept this thing going. I could keep them out. I mean, I’m sure that we have doctors that would say, “Let’s keep it closed for two years.” Okay? “Let’s close it up for two years.” No, we’ve got to get it open. Our people want it open, and that’s the way this country was built. Thank you. And, Nicole, it’s important to remember we’ve done more tests in eight days than South Korea has done in eight weeks. And our tests are better; they’re highly sophisticated. And, frankly, I took one. It’s not the most pleasant thing in the world, I will tell you that. We’re going to have a much simpler test very soon. But we have a really good test, and we’ve done more in eight days, nobody know — I just heard this number a few minutes ago. I learned it from being on your show, actually. Pretty impressive. Yes. And you hang a right. Hang a right under the eye. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Been a very busy day. I want to thank the American people for the incredible sacrifices that they’re making on behalf of our nation. And I want to encourage everyone to keep following our guidelines on social distancing: avoiding large gatherings and hand washing, and all of the other things that everybody knows they’re supposed to be doing. Ultimately, the goal is to ease the guidelines and open things up to very large sections of our country as we near the end of our historic battle with the invisible enemy. Been going for a while, but we’ll win. We’ll win. I said earlier today that I hope we can do this by Easter. I think that would be a great thing for our country, and we’re all working very hard to make that a reality. We’ll be meeting with a lot of people to see if it can be done. Easter is a very special day for many reasons. For me, for a lot of — a lot of our friends, that’s a very special day. And what a great timeline this would be. Easter, as our timeline — what a great timeline that would be. My first priority is always the health and safety of the American people, and we want everyone to understand that we are continuing to evaluate the data. We’re working with the task force and making decisions based on what is best for the interests of our fantastic country. In order to defeat the virus, we must continue to be very strong. Your resilience and spirit has been inspiring to everyone. Right now, this virus is attacking 149 countries, but everybody looks to us and they’re watching us. And I’m very proud to be your President — I can tell you that. There’s tremendous hope as we look forward and we begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Stay focused and stay strong. And my administration and myself will deliver for you as we have in the past. Let me provide you an update on critical preparations and supplies in our war on the virus. Through FEMA, the federal government is distributing more than 8 million N95 respirators, 14 million surgical masks, and many, many millions more are under order, and they’ll be arriving soon. 2.4 million face shields, 1.9 million surgical gowns, 13.5 million gloves, and more than 4,000 ventilators to the areas of greatest need have already been sent. And we have 4,000 being delivered to New York. The federal government is using every resource at its disposal to acquire and distribute critical medical supplies. The core element of this strategy is my executive order authorizing the use of the Defense Production Act, which has, as you know, already been activated, actually, a long time ago — quite a long time ago. Private companies are heeding our call to produce medical equipment and supplies because they know that we will not hesitate to invoke the DPA in order to get them to do what they have to do. It’s called leverage. You don’t have to use it from the standpoint of — actually, it’s been activated, but you don’t have to use it. But the threat of it being there is great leverage. And companies are doing as we ask, and companies are actually — even better than that, they’re coming through and they’re calling us. And it’s been, really, something to see. This morning, Ford, 3M, and General Electric Healthcare are making tremendous numbers — they’ve already started — of respirators ventilators and face shields. They’re working together. We didn’t have to exercise or utilize the DPA in any way. The fact that we have it helps, but we didn’t have to. And for the most part, we won’t have to. We’re receiving full cooperation from companies with the understanding that the federal government stands ready to compel cooperation if need be. We haven’t found that to be the case. It’s been really amazing to see these big, strong, powerful — in some cases, very small companies, family-owned companies, step up and make a lot of great product for what we’re going through and what we will continue to be going through for a while. The Army Corps of Engineers and the National Guard are building four hospital facilities in New York City at the Javits Center, which will be operational very soon. They’ve already started. In addition, they’re building four separate medical facilities in different parts of the state. We’re dealing with Governor Cuomo on that. So you’re going to have four hospitals and four medical facilities at the highest level, too. Really incredible facilities. Temporary but incredible. We’re also deploying the U.S. Navy hospital ship, and that will be arriving in New York Harbor in the not-too-distant future. It’s finishing its maintenance. They’re doing a very big maintenance, and what we did is we condensed it very seriously. And, as you know, the other hospital ship — and these are incredible ships — it’s already on its way to Los Angeles. So we’re in frequent contact with state and local officials, and getting a lot of work done. We’re, likewise, building hospitals in Los Angeles. We’re working also — the State of Washington. We’re working with the governor of the State of New Jersey. We’re building a medical facility, a hospital facility, and doing a lot of work. I want to thank the people from FEMA — the great people from FEMA — and also the Army Corps of Engineers. Secretary Mnuchin and the members of my administration continue to work closely with Congress. I’m pleased to report that we are working to pass the biggest and boldest financial relief package in American history. Senators will soon, hopefully, vote on a $2 trillion bill that will deliver direct cash payments to struggling Americans. No fault of their own. This came out of nowhere. Nobody can imagine this even happened. But it’s not their fault. We want to protect, and we will, all of the things that a person needs protected and a family needs protected. We’re working on job retention, loans for small businesses, and extended unemployment insurance for laid-off workers. The legislation will also include billions of dollars for additional resources for our, really, heroic — these are incredible doctors, nurses — brave — and hospitals, as well as support for hard-hit industries such as the airline industry and the cruise ship industry, which employ tremendous amounts of people and obviously serve very important functions beyond that. With very tough protections for the American taxpayer, the loans will be very secure and they will be very profitable and, at the same time, they’ll bridge — they call them bridge loans. In many cases, they’ll be bridging these companies back into very good health. Some of them are very important companies that four weeks ago didn’t have a problem. I’m also confident that the Democrats will do the right thing. I feel very confident. They’re working very hard together right now — Republicans and Democrats — and they’re getting very close to a very fair deal and a great deal for the people of our country. Today, as you probably saw, the Dow surged over 2,100 points. That’s the all-time record in history of the Exchange. This is very encouraging. And I think part of the reason is they are looking at what is close to being passed, and I think a very big part of it is they see that we want to get our country opened as soon as possible. They see we’re working very hard on that. That’s a very big factor, I think, in today’s historic gain. The legislation developed in the Senate is the first step to restoring confidence and stability to America’s economy as we look ahead to the time when we can carefully and responsibly reopen our country for business, and we hope that’s going to be very soon. I want to assure Americans that we have a team of public health experts. You’ve gotten to know them as well as I know them; they’re great people. Incredible. Talented. They love our country. Also, economists and other professionals working to develop a sophisticated plan to reopen the economy as soon as the time is right — one based on the best science, the best modeling, and the best medical research there is anywhere on Earth. Our great people have been — especially when it comes to our public health experts and officials — have been helping other countries, dealing with other countries, constant touch with other countries, helping them out, because many of them have never seen anything like what’s happening. But our decision will be based on hard facts and data as to the opening. I’m also hopeful to have Americans working again by that Easter — that beautiful Easter day. But rest assured, every decision we make is grounded solely on the health, safety, and wellbeing of our citizens. This is a medical crisis; this isn’t a financial crisis. But it’s a thing that nobody has seen for many, many decades. Nothing like this. Marshaling our economic strength is a key feature of defeating the virus, producing the material supplies and equipment that we need. And they’re doing a really fantastic job. We’re helping the governors. We had a conference call the other day with governors, and we allowed the press to join us in the call. And the spirit between us and the governors has been really great. We should never be reliant on a foreign country for the means of our own survival. I think we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot. This crisis has underscored just how critical it is to have strong borders and a robust manufacturing sector. For three years, we’ve embarked on a great national project to secure our immigration system and bring back our manufacturing jobs. We brought back many jobs — records numbers — record numbers of jobs. And this really shows — this experience shows how important borders are. Without borders, you don’t have a nation. Our goal for the future must be to have American medicine for American patients, American supplies for American hospitals, and American equipment for our great American heroes. Now, both parties must unite to ensure the United States is truly an independent nation in every sense of the word. Energy independence — we’ve established that. That’s something incredible that we have established. We’re energy independent, manufacturing independence, economic independence, and territorial independence enforced by strong, sovereign borders. America will never be a supplicant nation. We will be a proud, prosperous, independent, and self-reliant nation. We will embrace commerce with all, but we will be dependent on none. Above all, we know that the best thing for our economy and the world right now is a very, very powerful victory over the virus. Every day, the American people and showing the unity and resolve that has always defined the character of our nation. In New York, citizens are using 3D printers to make hundreds of the face shields. They’re making them by the hundreds. In Texas, businesses and churches are uniting to collect gloves and thermometers for hospitals. In the selfless actions of our amazing citizens, we’re seeing enduring strength of our magnificent nation, a spirit that can never be broken, and a victorious future that can never be denied. It never will be denied. Now, what I’d like to do is, perhaps, ask a person who has really established herself as maybe the world’s great expert on what she does — if I could ask Deborah to come forward and say a few words. And then I’ll ask Tony to come up and speak, and then our Vice President. And then we’ll take a few questions, and we’ll do it quickly. And we’ll probably see you again tomorrow. So, Deborah, please. Well, thank you, Tony. Great job. Larry, how about just a quick few minutes on how we’re doing over at the Hill, please? Thank you, Larry. I’ve been hearing that voice for so many years — like 30 years or more, maybe. And it’s a great voice and it’s a great man. So Larry Kudlow, thank you very much. I want to say that that package — and we went over parts of it, but pretty big parts — it really sets us up to, I think, even supersede where we were a month ago. I think we can get up there quickly and I think it allows us to supersede. It allows us to help these great companies that need help, like Boeing, which is — you know, it had a problem and then, on top of that problem, it had the virus come in. But we’ll be helping Boeing. We’ll be helping the airlines. We’ll be helping the cruise lines. We’ll be doing a lot of things and the money will all come back to us, and it will come back to us in a very strong form. And before we take some questions, I’d like to ask our great Vice President to say a few words, if you wouldn’t mind. Please. Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you. Kaitlan. I think we’re looking at a timeline. We’re discussing it. We had a very good meeting today. You know, if you add it all up, that’s probably nine days plus another two and a half weeks. It’s a period of time that’s longer than the original two weeks. So we’re going to look at it. We’ll only do it if it’s good. And maybe we do sections of the country; we do large sections of the country. That could be, too. But, no, we’re very much in Tony and with Deborah on everything we’re doing. I just thought it was a beautiful time. It would be a beautiful time, a beautiful timeline. It’s a great day. It was — it was based on a certain level of weeks from the time we started. And it happened to arrive — actually, we were thinking in terms of sooner. I’d love to see if come even sooner. But I just think it would be a beautiful timeline. Jon? Jon, we’re working with all of them. Sure. Sure. We’re working with all of them. We can be talking about large sections of our country, because there are sections of our country that you didn’t talk about that are doing unbelievably well; they have very little incidents or problem — very small numbers. It’s very possible that they won’t be ever subject to what’s happening in New York. New York is definitely a hotspot. There’s no question about it. And you know what we’re doing in New York to try and help, and I think we’re doing an incredible job. We’re going to have the hospitals up quickly — the medical centers, also, quickly. But we’ll just have to see. We have to follow it. We have to see. We’re going to look at that curve. We’re going to see when it starts coming down. And we’ll do the best job that can be done. John, please. I think we’ll be looking at a lot of things. We’ll also be looking at very large portions of our country. And I will be guided very much by Dr. Fauci and by Deborah and by some of the other professionals that work with both of you. And we’re going to see what — what will be, but that would certainly be — I think that’s a goal that perhaps can happen, or at least for a very large portion of our country. Well, it certainly is, by far, the — if you call it “hot,” if you call it any word you want to use. It is at a level that — I was speaking to Tony before — it’s a level that no place else is close. It’s very unfortunate. You know, one of the things that’s — that’s happened — that we’ve done, I think, a really good job on — I think that it’s something special what’s happened is I learned from Dr. Birx, a little while ago, when she said — I learned it actually this afternoon: In eight days — because we kept hearing about South Korea. And they had a very tough time at the beginning, if you remember. In eight days, we’re doing more testing than they’ve done in eight weeks. That’s a tremendous turn. And with our testing, it’s going — exponentially, it’s going up, up, up every day. So we’re going to be able to do things with this very highly sophisticated testing. And it’s also — the test itself is considered the best test. So, on top of doing now more than anybody else, we have a very high-quality test. That makes a big difference. It also makes a big difference, even in terms of opening, because we’re going to see those areas like the hotspots. But New York City definitely is a very hot spot. Steve. Well, you can talk about the Farm Belt. Take a look at the Farm Belt. Take a look at the areas out west. Look at big sections of Texas. I was talking to the great Governor of Texas. They have done a fantastic job out there. But they have very big sections of Texas where — you know, it’s — it’s like numerous states, frankly. But we can have large sections of — if we want to do it that way, we can have large sections of the country open. But I think it’s very important that we start moving on that and start thinking about it, because our country wants to be open, our people want it to be open, and they want it — they want — they’re raring to go. And I think it’s one of the reasons that we’re going to have a tremendous bounce back. I think it’s going to go very quickly. Also, I want to thank — while I’m here, I want to thank Larry for the job he’s done, Steve Mnuchin for the job he’s done. If you look at Peter Navarro, he’s sort of doing different things. He’s really — he’s a force, in terms of getting masks and getting all of the ventilators and all the things. He’s been fantastic — Peter. But I also want to thank Congress because whether or not we’re happy that they haven’t quite gotten there yet, they have been working long hours. I’m talking Republicans and Democrats — all of them. The House, the Senate. I want to thank Congress because they are really trying to get there, and I think they will. And I’ll see you all tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you. Beg your pardon? We’re talking to them about it. Thank you very much. Just before we begin, I want to mention we’re working very hard — long — on getting a young group of people out of Peru. We’ve removed some, and the rest are being removed with the cooperation of the Peruvian government. And we’re also dealing with Honduras on getting some people out that got caught up. And we are working on that very well — again, with the Honduran government’s work. And they’re working with us, so I appreciate that. We have a couple of other locations that we’ll report to you, and we were able to get a young woman released from a certain area who was being horribly accosted, horribly treated. And we spoke to General Milley. General Milley took care of it. We went in and we got her out. And we’ll — we’ll report further on that one. But it’s — that was rough stuff. I want to thank General Milley. I want to thank all of the people that were involved and the people that went in to get her. I want to thank you very much. As we continue to marshal every resource at America’s disposal in the fight against the Chinese virus, we’re profoundly grateful to our nation’s state and local leaders, doctors, nurses, law enforcement, and first responders who are waging this battle on the ground. It is absolutely critical that Americans continue to follow the federal government’s guidelines — so important — about social distancing, nonessential travel, and hand washing. Defeating this unseen enemy requires the help and commitment of every single American. I want to just say that Senator Rand Paul — a friend of mine; he’s been a great friend of mine. He’s been always there when we needed him, when the country needed him. And, as you know, he just tested positive. Jose [sic] Díaz-Balart — spoke to him yesterday — tested positive. And so people are — they’re getting quite close to home, and it’s a terrible thing that’s going on. The hidden enemy. I call it the hidden enemy. And I think they’ll all be fine. I hope they’re going to be fine. But I just want to send our regards — and I think I can speak on behalf of our country — to those two great friends of mine. We’re working urgently with Congress on legislation to support the millions of workers, small businesses, and industries who’ve been hit hard by the virus through no fault of their own. Our goal is to get relief to Americans as quickly as possible so that families can get by and small businesses can keep workers on the payroll. This will help our economy, and you will see our economy skyrocket once this is over. I think it’s going to skyrocket. It’s a — it’s a pent-up demand. It’s a built-up demand. And I guess you really have to say, “Who knows?” But I think it’s going to be a tremendous day when we win this war — and we will win the war. We want to win the war with as few — if you look at it — just deaths as possible. We want to have as few number of deaths as possible. Today, I’m announcing action to help New York, California, and Washington ensure that the National Guard can effectively respond to this crisis. The National Guard — these are tremendous people. They’re fully on alert. We’ve signed what we had to sign, and it’s been activated. We’re dealing also with other states. These states have been hit the hardest. Actually, pretty much by far, you could say, the hardest. Everybody can see that. Just look at the numbers. And, through FEMA, the federal government will be funding 100 percent of the cost of deploying National Guard units to carry out approved missions to stop the virus while those governors remain in command. So the governors, locally, are going to be in command, and we’ll be following them and we hope they can do the job, and I think they will. I spoke with all three of the governors today, and — just a little while ago – and they’re very happy with what we’re going to be doing because we’ll be announcing some other things for those three states and some other states where it’s hit the hardest. This action will give them maximum flexibility to use the Guard against the virus without having to worry about costs or liability and freeing up state resources to protect the health and safety of the people in their state. The federal government has deployed hundreds of tons of supplies from our National Stockpile to locations with the greatest need. In order to assist in those areas, I approved the State of New York’s request for a major disaster declaration — something which Governor Cuomo has been asking for and which I agree. And we had it done in very rapid fashion. We approved this on Friday evening, and we are working very, very hard to get all of these things not only signed up but completed and finished and win. The request from the State of Washington for a major disaster declaration was approved just a little while ago. It went through the process and we moved it very quickly. The request from the State of California was just received, and we will have it approved very quickly. We’ll be working — I told that to Gavin Newsom. And we are — we’re working on getting that done very quickly; it’ll be done maybe tonight. We’ve large — we have large quantities of medical equipment and supplies on the way, based on all of this, to those states including: respirators, surgical masks, and gowns, face shields, coveralls, and gloves, with large quantities already delivered to Washington and to New York. In addition to large quantities of supplies, I’ve also directed FEMA to supply the following: four large federal medical stations with 1,000 beds for New York, eight large federal medical stations with 2,000 beds for California, and three large federal medical stations and four small federal medical stations with 1,000 beds for the State of Washington. The governors know. The supplies en route to California and New York will be delivered within the next 48 hours. In addition, the Naval Hospital ship, the USNS Mercy — it’s an incredible ship; these two ships are incredible — one on the West Coast; one on the East Coast — will be deployed to Los Angeles to add emergency surge medical capacity. And they have a tremendous capacity. They are really something. I will say that, if you look at some of the things we’ve been doing — and now those numbers have gone up — and just to be a little bit more exacting, we’ve done a presidential approval for request for a major disaster declaration for the State of New York. Approval of Title 32 National Guard activation for the State of New York. We’re providing all of this at no cost to the governor. I spoke with Governor Cuomo. He’s working hard. We’re all working hard together. The relationship has really been amazing. But it also enables the governor to provide robust National Guard support to the state. And the 25 percent — we’re going to be waiving that 25 percent cost. We’re picking up, we’ll be coordinating, and they’ll be doing something with very special people. Mission assignment of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to provide support to build out alternate care sites. They’re doing various alternate care sites, which have now been designated by New York. Four large federal medical stations of one thousand beds. These are very complex places, actually, with great equipment and great people. Strategic National Stockpile order. And this is as of a number of days ago — so far delivered to New York — and this is the 19th. We had the N95 respirators — 186,416 delivered. We’ve delivered 444,078 surgical masks. Many have been delivered since then. Face shields — we’ve delivered 84,560 face shields. Surgical gowns — surgical gowns — 68,944 to New York. Coveralls — 352. Gloves — 245,486. Also, to New York, in terms of what’s been delivered just since then — the numbers are quite large, and we have tremendous numbers of companies also making equipment. For the State of Washington, we’ve delivered 369,000 N95 respirators, 507,406 surgical masks. And this is as of about three days ago. Face shields — 63,788 face shields. Surgical gowns — 107,850. Gloves — 240,376. And we have many, many things pending. It’s actually not pending; it’s being — they’re being fabricated. They’re being made. And they’re moving. Now, for Washington — so we have four small federal medical stations, 250 beds. And for Washington — State of Washington — we have three large federal medical stations, 750 beds. And then you have, as I said, the approval of the Title 32 National Guard. State of California — again, to be very precise — we’re going to have the approval of the Title 32 National Guard activation. And we’re providing all of this again, like in New York, at no cost to the governor — meaning to Governor Newsom and the state. No cost to the state. It enables the governor to provide robust National Guard support to the state. So they’re going to have control of the National Guard. The federal government is sending — these are incredible people that are being sent. We have eight large federal medical stations with over 2,000 beds, and that’s going to California. And then Strategic National Stockpile order — we’ve ordered, likewise, hundreds of thousands of different items. I won’t go into the exact numbers, but the numbers are very substantial. But we’re having a tremendous additional number sent. And whatever the states can get, they should be getting. I say we’re sort of a backup for the states. And some of the states are doing really well and some don’t do as well. The ones that don’t do as well need more help, but these are three states that really do need help because they are — they are hit very hard. And the outpouring from the private sector has also been extraordinary. I’m pleased to report that Honeywell — great company — has just announced it will immediately expand its personal protective equipment manufacturing operations in Rhode Island to produce millions of additional N95 masks. They’re very hard to get. They’re actually quite complex. For the U.S. government’s Strategic National Stockpile. They’ll be immediately then delivered to the various states. This expansion is already underway, and it’s going to provide a lot of jobs for that state — probably around 500. The masks will be distributed by the government for the use of the health, safety, and emergency. And this is for response workers — primarily for response workers. These are very high-end. This expansion is in addition to Honeywell’s action to more than double production of its existing personal protective equipment manufacturing plants. They make a lot of different things and they’re doubling and tripling their production. They’re going around the clock. Today, I’m also announcing the launch of a new public-private consortium organized by the White House, the Department of Energy, and IBM to unleash the power of American supercomputing resources to fight the Chinese virus. The following leaders from private industries, academia, and government will be contributing, and they’re going to be contributing a lot of different things, but primarily computing resources to help researchers discover new treatments and vaccines. They’ll be working along with NIH and all of the people that are working on this. But tremendous help from IBM, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, MIT, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, the Department of Energy’s national labor — laboratories, the National Science Foundation, and NASA. They’re all contributing to this effort, and they’re fully in gear. This afternoon, I also want to update you on the steps we’re taking to protect and serve our country’s 18 million veterans. These are great people — our amazing veterans. They’ve shown their eternal loyalty to our nation, and this is the time where they’re in need, and we are going to show our loyalty to them. We’re being very protective of our veterans. We’re working on certain hospitals where we may be doing some work — in Louisiana, in particular, and some other states. Veterans hospitals. We’re going to be very protective of our veterans. Some of them are of that very vulnerable age. And some of them, obviously, are not feeling well. And some of them are still suffering the wounds of war from many years ago. Yesterday, I signed vital legislation to ensure that the G.I. Bill will cover distance learning during this emergency. I also spoke with many of our veteran service organizations, or the VSOs, to describe our unprecedented action. In February, the Department of Veterans Affairs established 19 emergency operation centers throughout the country. One of the things that they’ve been trying to get done for many years — you all know this from following me over the last number of years, but we got it done pretty quickly; they’ve been trying to get it done for many, many decades — was Choice. Veterans Choice and also Veterans Accountability. Now, if it’s crowded within this — if they can’t get to a doctor — we have great doctors in the VA. I have to say that. We have fantastic doctors — as good as they come. But it’s hard to because of what was bureaucracy, but no longer bureaucracy. We’ve done a lot of things, in that case, because of Accountability. When people aren’t doing their jobs or if they’re bad or if they’re sadistic, or if they steal or anything bad happens, we’re now allowed to fire them for — I signed that a year and a half ago. For many years, you weren’t able to do that. So the VA is working. And I was just told by our great leader at the VA, Robert — Robert Wilkie — he said, for the first time, we got the highest marks in the history — highest poll numbers in the history of the Veterans Administration. It came out a week ago that — that they’re happy. And, look, one of the reasons that happened — highest in history. One of the reasons that happened is because of Veterans Choice. If they have to wait on line, they go and see a private doctor and we pay the bill. And — and they get better. They don’t have to wait two weeks and three weeks or two days. But they get better. And a lot of times, they waited so long that they would they would have a problem and it would end up being terminal because they couldn’t get the kind of treatment that they deserve. So, highest poll numbers, highest approval numbers in the history of the VA. I was just given that information yesterday. We restricted visitors’ access to 135 veteran community living centers which house nearly 8,000 veterans with chronic medical conditions so that we limit their exposure to the virus. We want to totally take care of our veterans. And that’s what we’re doing. The VA has canceled most elective medical and surgical procedures. They’re delaying them until after this is gone, after we’ve won. We began providing lifesaving care to patients who had symptoms across the 171 VA medical centers nationwide. That’s a big deal. Under my administration, the VA has also been a leader in expanding telehealth. Telehealth is becoming a bigger and bigger factor in medicine. This month, we have taken bold action to cut through the red tape and make telehealth available for millions more Americans during this crisis. They can speak to a doctor from the safety of their home rather than risk becoming infected or make it a tremendously long trip when, frankly, you’ll speak to a great doctor right from your home. It’s happening: telehealth. We’re very much at the forefront of that, too. We’re very proud of it, and it also takes a big burden off our system. We continue to accelerate the development of safe and effective vaccines. We’re also aggressively investigating a number of antiviral therapies and treatments to determine their potential in reducing the severity and duration of the symptoms. And you know how I feel because how I feel is, on Tuesday, they’re going to be starting it on Tuesday morning and we’re going to have some medications delivered that — we’re going to see if they work. They certainly are effective in other ways. And they — they are safe, from the standpoint — is that they’re not — they’re not killing people. We’re not going to have that. So, a lot of great things have been happening in that regard. I just want to finish, and then we’re going to ask a couple of people to say a few words that have been so much in the forefront of this incredible job that we’ve all been given. But I want to say that I know that this is a challenging time for all Americans. We’re enduring a great national trial, and we will prove that we can meet the moment. I want to assure the American people that we’re doing everything we can each day to confront and ultimately defeat this horrible, invisible enemy. We’re at war. In a true sense, we’re at war. And we’re fighting an invisible enemy. Think of that. For those of you who are feeling alone and isolated, I want you to know that we are all joined together as one people, eternally linked by our shared national spirit — we love our country — a spirit of courage and love and patriotism. No American is alone as long as we are united. And we are united. We’re very united. People are saying things now that, three weeks ago, they didn’t talk that way. We’re very united. No force is equal to the strength of a uni- — really, a unified America, a united America, an America like we have it right now. For those worried and afraid, please know: As long as I am your President, you can feel confident that you have a leader who will always fight for you, and I will not stop until we win. This will be a great victory. This is going to be a victory. And it’s going to be a victory that, in my opinion, will happen much sooner than originally expected. It’s now attacking — the enemy is attacking 144 countries at this moment. One hundred and forty-four. That’s unthinkable. There’s never been anything like this. And it’s vicious. It is vicious. Some people recover well and some people have a hard time. We all know that. But we will be totally victorious. We will then get our economy up to a level that it was and, in my opinion, beyond — because there will be a pent-up demand. There is a pent-up demand. And a lot of — a lot of great things will happen. But I’m very proud of our country. I’m very proud. I’m very proud to be your President. And it’s just something that’s just — you’re very special people. So thank you very, very much. And I’m going to ask, if I might, a combination of — Pete, why don’t start off, okay? Please. Thank you. Thank you, Pete, very much. Peter Navarro? Thank you, Peter, very much. Great job. Mike, please. Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike. So, just a couple of little things, and we’ll take some questions. Maybe you will have some, maybe you won’t. That’ll be a shock. It would shock the American public. But I have to say, on the testing, the new — if we — if this works out, and we think it might, the new test will be a very simple one — much easier than the existing test, which is quite complex and not — not a lot of fun to take. And this will be a game changer. But remember: We inherited a broken, obsolete system. It was good for a small number of people, but not good for the millions of people that we’re talking about. And we’ve made this into a system that, no matter where you go in the world, that’s where they’re going, that’s what they want to do, that’s how they’re going to be doing it should something like this happen again. So our people have done a fantastic job. Really, a fantastic job. And I hope the new test works out. We’ll know fairly soon, I think, Doctor. We’re going to be knowing about that fairly soon. Hopefully, it’ll check out or test out. And we certainly are looking forward to that. That will be a very simple test by comparison. It won’t will be unpleasant at all. And one other thing: the ships. So we have the Mercy, and that’s in — it’s going to California, as you know. That’s in — on the West Coast now. And you have a sister ship that’s essentially a twin. They’re incredible. I mean, they’re incredible ships. I’ve seen it. I’ve seen one of them, and they are unbelievable — what they can do and the capacity. Many operating rooms. You know, they’re wartime ships. They’re meant for war. Many, many operating rooms. Stainless steel. These rooms are as good as there is anywhere in the nation, actually. I spoke with Governor Cuomo. We had a great conversation today — a number of conversations, actually. He’s working very hard. And we are going to be bringing that ship — that’s called the Comfort. So you have the Mercy and the Comfort. The Comfort is on the East Coast. And that ship will be coming over the next three weeks — three or four weeks. It’s being — it was in the middle of maintenance, and we are moving the maintenance very, very quickly. And we’re also supplying the ship simultaneously. It’s actually big supplies going into those ships — big. And that ship will be coming up here over the next few weeks, and we’ll probably be putting it in New York Harbor. And we’re making arrangements for that, also, as to where it’s going to be docked. So you have the Mercy and you have the Comfort. They’ll be coming up. The Mercy will start very — very quickly. It’ll be arriving in Los Angeles pretty soon. So we look forward to that. A question? ABC, go ahead. Gee, I think it was quite a while ago. I don’t know. It’s been a long time. Who are they, please? Who are they? Well, I guess Rick is coming out. Romney is in isolation? Gee, that’s too bad. Go ahead. No. No. None whatsoever. I was thinking about it today. And I’m saying — you know, you could have a lot of senators and a lot of House members. I spoke last night with a very, very good man, who happens to be in the House, as you know. And he’s — he’s just started, and he tested positive. So you could have a large number of people in there from Congress. You could have — between House and Senate, you could have a large number. And I think it’s something, at least — I mean, I fully understand why you should be there. I think it may be a constitutional reason why you should. But we could be in a position where I would certainly be in favor of it, where they could vote from a certain outside location. I would be in favor of it. I was thinking about it today. I mean, we could be in this — look, with what’s going on — nobody has ever seen anything like this — you could have a lot of people in there from Congress. And it was — it would certainly be — they may tell me there’s a reason, constitutionally, and there may be. But I would be totally in favor of it on a temporary basis. Well, we have — we have an interesting thing. You know, we — we all want to get to the same place, but we have different — I have — we want to — and I just wrote this down just a little while ago: We want to protect the worker very much. So do they; so do the Democrats. We also want to protect the worker through their companies. We don’t want to necessarily — we’re going to help the worker anyway, but ideally they can go back to one of their great companies. You know, you have great companies that are in financial trouble now. And we need money to help those companies so they get back into where they should be — health, you know. Most of these companies, four weeks ago, were having the best year they’ve ever had. Last year was the best year. Almost all of them — other than Boeing, which has incredibly had problems, big percentage of GDP. But we have to be able to work with Boeing. Boeing is a — was a great company and will be a great company again, I think, shortly. So we have to work with the companies and they don’t want to do that. It’s crazy. They don’t want to do that. I don’t want stock buybacks. So I don’t know where the problem is there, but I know that’s one of the things that they’re talking about. I do not want stock buybacks. I don’t want to give a bailout to a company and then have somebody go out and use that money to buy back stock in the company and raise the price and then get a bonus. Okay? So I may be Republican, but I don’t like that. I want them to use the money for the workers. I want them to use the money for the company — to help the company. In the airline business, to take care of their planes and all of the things they have to do, including buying new planes. But I don’t want — I don’t want to have any stock buybacks. The Democrats are with me. I don’t know what the problem is on that one because I can’t imagine that is too tough. We want to — we want to be able to take care of our people. You’re going to have things coming up. We’re going to have some of — some of the elements that they’re talking about, they’re down to — I mean, literally, 95 percent of things that you would think that they wouldn’t agree and you’d think the Republicans wouldn’t agree to it. And unemployment, as an example, is one of the things they talk about, and unemployment insurance. I think we’re very close on that. But, you know, right now, they’re not. Right now, they’re not there. But I think that the Democrats want to get there. And I can tell you, for a fact, the Republicans want to get there. And I don’t think anybody actually has a choice. It’s a bold package. It’s a big package. We do have money for — one of the things is we do have money for saving small businesses. I don’t imagine the Democrats — because we have a lot of money set aside for small businesses. We also have a lot of money set aside for big businesses — you know, the big, powerful companies that were powerful four weeks ago and, today, they’re overextended. Look at the cruise lines. That’s a big — that’s a tremendous business, a big business. Very important to Florida. And it’s unthinkable, a month ago. A month — just unthinkable. They were setting all sorts of records. They were — they’re building new ships. We can’t let the cruise lines go out of business. I mean, that would be massive numbers of jobs for our country and, actually, for the world. But for our country, it’s a massive business. And it doesn’t take much to keep them going. So we have to — we have to provide for that. But I think both the Democrats and the Republicans are agreed that we have to take care of our workers. And we’re going to be doing that in numerous ways, including a substantial cash payment. Yeah, please. Well, it depends which. It depends which governors you’re talking about. Okay. Well, we are using it now. The fact that I signed it, it’s in effect. But, you know, we’re a country not based on nationalizing our business. Call a person over in Venezuela; ask them how did nationalization of their businesses work out. Not too well. The concept of nationalizing our business is not a good concept. But I’ll tell you why — as Peter said, we may have to use it someplace along the chain, but we’re getting calls. Here’s the beauty of it: If we go out and we want, let’s say, masks, we don’t know who to call on masks. But Hanes, who makes things of cotton — various elements, lots of things; it’s a great company — they called us and they said, “We’re going to make millions of masks.” We got a call today from 3M — there’s a big article today — the head of 3M — they’re going to make tremendous products, and they’re more or less in that business. And if they’re not — like, for instance, General Motors spoke to us; Ford spoke to us about doing ventilators. The beauty is, they’re calling us. If you go the national route — nationalization route — we’re going to tell a company to make a ventilator; they don’t even know what a ventilator is. In the case of one company, they used to make them years ago and they know how to make them. You know, it’s a very complex piece of equipment, frankly. So what we’re doing is — I think Peter said it maybe better than anybody is going to say it. We have the threat of doing it, if we need it. We may have to use it somewhere along the supply chain, in a minor way. But we have millions of masks being done. We have respirators. We have ventilators. We have a lot of things happening right now. So just the threat of using it. But using it’s actually a big deal. I mean, when this was announced, it sent tremors through our business community and through our country because, basically, what are you doing? You’re talking about — you’re going to nationalize an industry or you’re going to nationalize — you’re going to take away companies. You’re going to tell companies what to do. The truth is, most people — nobody would know where to start. There are companies out there, that you wouldn’t think of, that have called us, that say, “We can do ventilators. We used to do them years ago.” And they can do them in large quantities. Other comp- — if I call companies and say, “You build ventilators,” they don’t even know what a ventilator is. So it’s really working out very well. One of the reasons I read the numbers to you is because we’ve given vast numbers of just about everything. We’ve taken it out of our supply — out of our supply, and we’re restocking our supply. But we’re really backing up the governors. The governors have to go out, do their things. And you have a lot of governors — they’ve done a fantastic job. You have some that haven’t. Usually, it’s the ones that complain that have the problems. But we’ve had a great relationship, as an example, with Governor Cuomo, with Governor Newsom. We’ve had a great relationship with the State of Washington. Those are the three hotbeds. Those are three hotbeds. Now, we’re also dealing with other states, as the Admiral said yesterday. We’re dealing with all of the states, actually, in one form or another. Some are very — affected in a very minor way, where you have two people or three people. And I don’t even mean deaths; I mean, literally, cases. And that’s different than New York, where you have, you know, tremendous — where everybody — I lived there for a long time. Everybody is extremely close, tight. And you have a lot of cases in New York. You have a lot of cases in New York. And we’re helping Governor Cuomo. We’re helping Governor Newsom. They’ve been — frankly, they’ve been total gentlemen. They want to get it done and we want to get it done. But doing — doing it the way we’re doing it is much better. It’s really much better. But it all comes from — yeah, I know. You’re right. And we coordinate with the states and we are coordinating with the states. And, for the most part, the coordination has been very good. Look, three days ago, I had a phone call with all the governors. I actually allowed the press to stay; they weren’t supposed to stay. And one person in the media said, “That was surprising.” It’s actually a little risky doing that because we had Democrats and we had Republicans. And, you know, they’re politicians and they always have something to say. Well, I took a lot of calls. And we really didn’t get one nasty or bad response. They were thanking us for the job we did. And I had the press stand — I don’t know if you were there; I don’t think so. I had the press standing there, watching. They weren’t supposed to be there, but I said, “Let them stand there.” The governors were very complimentary. Very, very complimentary. And I watched — I watched, over the last few days, Governor Cuomo. I watched Gavin Newsom, in California. I watched both of them. And they’ve been, you know, very complimentary. And those are really the hotbeds. And so we want to keep that going. I’m very proud of this country. And I’m, frankly, very proud of a lot of the politicians that normally we’re fighting with. We have different views, you know — a little different view. But we’re going to get to the same place. We have different views, but we’re going to get to the same place. Yeah, please. We have been asked about that and we’re going to take a look at it. It’s a — it’s a bit of a problem. But when we talk about totally nonviolent — we’re talking about these are “totally nonviolent prisoners.” We are actually looking at that, yes. Go ahead. Real quick. Well, I could — I could ask — anybody? Would you like to take that one, Bob? But, you know, this is just like all of the other stuff that you — not you, but that the press was asking — all of which turned out to be — we actually gave CDC more money, not less money. They said we defunded. It turned out it was more money. Every one of those things that were said were 100 percent wrong, and this sounds like another one them. But, anyway, go ahead. I wish — again, our relationship with China is a very good relationship. I wish they told us three months sooner that this was a problem. We didn’t know about it. They knew about it and they should have told us. We could have saved a lot of lives throughout the world. If you look at what’s happening in Italy and Spain and a lot of other countries, we could have saved a lot of lives throughout the world. Kelly. Well, I hope we won’t have to. It’s possible, but we’ll have to see how that works. As far as the Senate is concerned, we are looking at some — you know, some of the folks are feeling very good. Some are quarantined but they’re negative. They may be — it may be totally fine. Okay? Others are positive. We’re just finding this now for the first time. I mean, over the last two days, we found out. No, I don’t see any threats at all. Honestly, I don’t see any threats at all. It’ll all work out. It is a question and a very good question, I thought, that we are considering. Now, I don’t know if you can do it constitutionally, but we are considering letting people vote — senators, congressmen and women — vote from a separate — from a separate location, from an outside — namely, a hospital or a home, depending on where they are. So we are looking at that. It’s a little trickier question — most people would believe — but we are looking at that very strongly. Well, we’re dealing with him all the time. And we’re dealing with Mitch. We’re dealing with the other side. Everybody wants to get there. We’ll see what happens. I think he’ll — I think he’ll get there. It’s — to me, it’s not very complicated. We have to help the worker. We have to save the companies. Because as soon as we’re finished with this war — it’s not a battle; it’s a war — as soon as we’re finished with this war, our country is going to bounce back like you’ve never seen before. But we have to get it to that position and we have to make sure that those companies are whole — that they haven’t been disbanded. Because if you do that, it’s going to take much longer. So, in a way, it’s being pennywise if you don’t. But we want to help the worker. We want to help the companies that the workers come from. Because if those companies go out of business — and that includes small businesses. We have a tremendous amount of small business work in there. You know that. Once they go out and they don’t come back, that’s a much longer period of building. Bad things were happening to her in a certain country. And we’re — we’re really under the feeling that we should keep it somewhat private until — She’s already been freed. And I have to tell you, General Milley and the — his people were unbelievable. They were not playing games. General Milley does not play games. He’s a very interesting guy. They got her out. They got her out of a certain country where she was seriously abused, accosted, and — whatever the maximum word is, other than death, that happened. But we got her out and she’s okay, and she’s back with her parents. Yes. No, I mean — Look, I have the best people in the world. I think we’re doing an extraordinary job. If you look at — if you look in, let’s say, the H1N1 — you look at that whole — that was a disaster. That was a tough period of time for our country. You look at so many other things that weren’t handled very well, whether it’s Katrina or something else. Look, I respect everybody, but I feel I have an incredible team and I think we’re doing an incredible job. When you look at the job we’re doing — and all you have to do is look at the approval numbers on the job we’re doing. I think we’re doing an incredible job. So I don’t want to disturb them, bother them. I don’t think I’m going to learn much. And, you know, I guess you could say that there’s probably a natural inclination not to call. Now, if I felt that if I called, I’d learn something and that would say one life — it would save one life, okay? — I would make the call in two minutes. But I don’t see that happening. Please. Yeah. I saw both. Sure. Sure. Well, look, I’m of the opinion we have to do great during this 14 days, during the 15-day period. We’ll know at the end of 14 days, pretty much. We’re going to have a pretty good idea how we’re doing. I think you have to shut it down and you have to see. But, you know, there’ll be a point at which we say, “We’re back in business. Let’s go.” Those two statements are not mutually exclusive, you understand. I saw both of them today. And they sort of — they intermesh. Well, he — he is calling for a faster — just a brutal shutdown, and then open up, maybe, a little bit faster. So, you know, there’s — there’s that fine line. Look, we did a big shutdown when we wouldn’t allow people from China that could have been very seriously infected, that were — when we cut that off very early. And then we cut Europe off very early, as you know. So that was also very early. Well, I can’t tell you that. What I have to say is that I think we’re going to have good results. I think the American people have been amazing. I think our stimulus package will get done, and it will be a tremendous package. We’re really not — I mean, they may not have gotten those votes but they’re very close to getting a deal done. So I’d be — I’d be surprised if I didn’t. And if they don’t, I think, frankly, the American people will be very upset with the Democrats because the Republicans are ready to approve a deal. So the only reason that the deal couldn’t get done is pure politics. Yes, please. Well, he should have — you know, the hospital systems, in various places — some have been stocked and ready to go for — nothing for this. Nothing. This is beyond anything that anybody ever thought possible. I think you could really say this. Nobody can — nobody can really — Doctor, nobody can really say, “Oh, gee, this will happen.” This is a very unique and hopefully it will be unique for, you know, many, many centuries — you know, for a long time. Hopefully we don’t see this again. But, again, the systems are supposed to be ready, willing, and able. They’re supposed to be ready to go. We are helping them a lot, and I have great love for New York City and I have great love for New York State. And we’re going to help them a lot. I mean, I was just saying we’re sending our ships up there; we’re sending more than just this ship. We may be using — if we need, we’ll be using some of the cruise ships that you’ve been reading about. We’ll be using them also because they’re very immediate and very quick. They can be there very quickly. We have good docking sys- — you know, systems in the places that we’re talking about. So we may be using some of the cruise liners that we’re talking about. But, no. I mean, I think — I think Bill de Blasio is working very hard. I think he’s trying very hard. It’s a tough situation for him and every mayor because nobody has ever seen the scale. You know, when you hear — you’ve given millions of masks and you’ve given hundreds of thousands of masks in a certain short period of time, and then you hear they need many, many more. You know, one of the things they have started, with respect to masks, is the sterilization process. Some are — you know, are — really, it works very well. Others aren’t really set up that way; you throw them out. But we have a sterilization process that’s working very hard. Speaking of that, hand sanitizers: You know, when you asked the question on the companies and what’s going on — we have many companies now — companies that made whiskey, they’d made alcohol, they’ve now gone very quickly into the hand sanitizers and all of — you know, you’ve been reading about it. Three or four big companies. We’re doing incredibly well on that. There was no way, if you took the existing companies, that something like that could happen. But it happens almost — they’ll call Peter Navarro or they’ll call somebody. In one case, they called me. They said, “We can do this. We can do that.” We’ve had a lot of those calls where companies want to — there’s a company in New Hampshire, a great company — they want to make ventilators. I had never thought of them for ventilators, but they do make metal equipment and things out of metal. They’ll be great. They’ll make — they’ll make a great product. So, Peter, I think you’re seeing a lot of that. Right? Yes, please. Well, you know, every time I do it — like, for instance, I committed publicly that I wouldn’t take the $450,000 salary. It’s a lot of money. Whether you’re rich or not, it’s a lot of money. And I did it and nobody cared. Nobody — nobody said, “Thank you.” Nobody said, “Thank you very much.” Now, I didn’t commit legally. I just said, “I don’t want it. I don’t want my salary. I work for zero. I don’t want my salary.” Nobody said, “Oh, thank you very much.” But I guarantee you, if I ever took it, you would go out after me — you, in particular, would go out after me like crazy. So I have no idea what they’re talking about with regard to the one element. Everything is changing, just so you understand. It’s all changing. But I have no idea. But every time I commit to do something — I’ve committed to do my — look, I ran and everybody knew I was a rich person. I built a great company and people knew that. But I agreed to do things I didn’t have to. I still don’t have to. But my company — I told the kids, who are running it — I’m not running it. But I told them, “Don’t deal with foreign companies. Don’t deal…” I didn’t have to do that. I could have just ran and I have — I didn’t have to do that at all. And instead of being thanked for, again, not agreeing to do, but just not doing it, I get excoriated all the time. So I’ve learned — let’s just see what happens because we have to save some of these great companies. They can be great companies, literally, in a matter of weeks. We have to save them. Yeah, please. Yeah. Go ahead. Sure. Pete, go ahead. Sure. If we need them. I don’t — I hope we don’t need them. I hope you’re going to have great luck on Tuesday morning. We sent a lot of the medicine — we don’t have to go into it again, but we sent a lot of the medicine to Governor Cuomo. I believe they already have it. And they have some very capable people. We spoke to Dr. Zucker, who is his primary representative on this. And we spoke to the governor himself, and I think he’s excited about it like I’m excited about it. Now, will it work? I think it has a really good chance. I think it’s worthwhile. Why should we be testing it in a test tube for a year and a half, when we have thousands of people that are very sick? They’re very, very sick. And we can use it on those people and maybe make them better — and, in some cases, maybe save their lives. So, Governor Cuomo told me they’ll be using their supplies — starting their supply on Tuesday morning. I think it’s very exciting. I think — because, if that happens, much of what we’re talking about with ships and hospitals and all of the things that we’re doing and all of these masks and everything that we’re ordering — ventilators — it’s a whole different game if that happens. And we’ll see. There’s been some tremendous signs that this could work. Now, again, you know, some doctors think it should go for years in testing. But, you know, this has been something that’s been around for many years. It’s been phenomenal — a strong, powerful drug for malaria. But we think it might work on this, based on evidence — based on very strong evidence. We’re going to see. We’re going to know on — you know, sometime after Tuesday. But you’ll have to ask Governor Cuomo. I think they’re going to start the process. We’ve gotten them the drug. I think they’re going to start the process of giving the drug — mouth — you know, through — through mouth. And I think that starts on Tuesday morning, he said. And that’ll be — I mean, I tell you what: I don’t want to get anybody overly excited, but I’m very excited by that, by the prospect of it. Then, in addition to that, they’re working — NIH is working on vaccines and on — they’re making great progress, but the vaccine does have to be tested for a long period of time because you can’t give, you know, thousands — millions of people a vaccine and it turns out to be dangerous. So that does have to be tested. But this one has been taken for a long time, so we know pretty much one result. Yeah, please. Well, I don’t want to exactly say that, but I have spoken to President Xi about this — specifically, about this. And, look, he doesn’t want this. This was — you know, this is not something that he wants, and — and it happened. It happened to China. And one thing they told me — I was told by our great Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, that China has been buying a lot of our farm product. And I’m looking at different pricing, but China has, despite all of this. And it started — this delayed it a little bit, obviously, but it started fairly recently. But China is buying — we made a new deal, as you know, with China. A very big trade deal. And China has been buying our agricultural product. Yes. In fact, they’re sending some masks — They’re sending masks to Italy. They are sending masks to Italy. We’re in a very good process with masks. But I’m a little upset with China, I’ll be honest with you, because — — as much as I like President Xi and as much as I respect the country and admire the country — I have great admiration for the country, what they’ve done in a short period of time. Of course, our presidents, our previous presidents allowed that to happen; you should say “thank you very much” to all of them. But they should have told us about this. And I did ask him whether or not we could send some people, and they didn’t want that — out of pride. I think, really, out of pride. They don’t want — they don’t want us sending people into China, to help them. You know, China is a strong country. They have — they have their scientists and they have their doctors — very smart. A lot of people. And, you know, but I did discuss that about sending our people in. And, they didn’t really respond. We went again; they didn’t respond. If they went in, they would have been able to tell us — give us a much earlier indication. But we had an early indication, and that’s why I closed out China. I mean, I felt — it was my instinct, but that’s why I closed out China at a very early time. Please. It’s really a fair question. I think I’ll let — would you like to answer that question? Please. Please, Surgeon General. Yes. I’ll answer that. And if that’s not the policy, I’ll make it the policy. And I was just saying, as Mike was saying that, the answer is “yes.” We will do those tests, because I think, in that case, it’s important. I think that if you could call — you could say “illegal alien”; you could say, “illegal immigrant”; you could say whatever you want to use — your definition of what you’re talking about. We’re all talking about the same thing. Yes, we will test that person because I think it’s important that we test that person. And we don’t want to send that person back into wherever we’re going to be sending the person — whether it’s another country or someplace else. Because, you know, we’re now bringing them right out of our country. But, yeah, we will test those people. Okay? Thank you. Yeah. Please. Please. Do you need a test? He better not, right? He better not. He didn’t like it. He didn’t like it. He wasn’t happy. And, you know, anybody that knows Karen Pence knows this — because the Vice President told me. He said she actually handled it better than him. Right? That’s true, right? I didn’t handle it — I didn’t handle it so well, either. Don’t worry about it. Yes, please. Yeah. With numerous countries. Yeah. Sure. With numerous countries. If they need help, we’ll give them help. There’s nobody has what we have, especially with the new tests that are coming out. North Korea, Iran, by the way, and others. We are open for helping other countries. And this is a very serious time and North Korea is going through something. Iran is going through something very, very strong. We let — Iran is really going through a very difficult period with respect to this, as you know. So I’ve put the — it’s really a glad hand, it’s all it is, to North Korea, to Iran, and to many other countries. And we’re working with — as the Doctor can say, we’re working with many countries, with respect to the problems that they have. Again, it’s over 140 countries right now. But North Korea, Iran, and many of the countries, we will help and we’re willing to. As an example, this new test — if this new test works out where, instead of going through what we all went through with this rather difficult test, to put it nicely, we would have — is that just a swab on the tongue, Doctor? Just a — or, how does that work, the — Not to the same — not to the same — It doesn’t go all the way and hangs a right under your eye, right? So, that’s a tough test. So, if we do that — the procedure, the test — and nobody has this in the world. Nobody has this. This is developed by us. We think it’s going to be certified soon. We think it’s going to be very good. But if we have that, we’ll be able to help a lot of countries. Please. We’re going to with everybody and see if we can get something done. Please. Yeah, we’ll work with whoever we have to. We have to help the American worker. We have to help the countries from which the American workers — I mean, they came out of these companies — they were doing phenomenally well. You saw where payroll was going way up, where wages were going way, way up. There’s never been a time like this. We can’t lose those companies and we want the worker to be happy. And we’re being, I think, more generous than anybody has ever been. We want to take care of the worker, but we want to make sure that when we win the war — it’s only a question of — it’s “when,” not “if.” When we win the war against the virus, we want to make sure those companies are ready to charge forward — not that they’ve been disbanded because we were pennywise and dollar foolish. Yeah. Well, we were asked that question a little while ago and the answer is: We may, but we may not need it. We do a very high standard — our standard is higher. Please. Yeah. We’re going to see what happens. Hopefully, we won’t need it, but we might. But we’re going to see what happens. Look, the greatest thing we can do is win the war. The war is against the virus. That’s the war. We do that, everything — I really believe everything is going to fall into place. It’s going to be beautiful. I call it a “pent-up demand.” People are dying to go out to a restaurant. People are dying to go onto airplanes. They’re — I think, we’re going to — there’s a tremendous pent-up demand. You may be surprised to the degree. I think it’s going to go very rapidly because this wasn’t a financial crisis — just the opposite. This was a medical crisis. No, I don’t have stock. I own things that — No. I didn’t even think about it. You know, it’s very interesting that you ask a question like that — you know, a nasty question. And yet, it deserves to asked, I guess. What I’ve done, by deciding to run — and I knew this. I knew this the first day. I said, “If I win, it’s going to going to cost a lot of money.” It cost me billions of dollars to become President — to be President of the United States — in things that would normally be run at a certain thing, even people that don’t like me because they think I’m too tough on the border. Now, some people love me for it; other people don’t like me at all. You know, it’s very funny. My wife — we were at a charity event in New York City. I had just announced that I was running. And we were at the Robin Hood Foundation at the Convention Center — which now we’re going to be converting to hospitals for Governor Cuomo, right? And I was walking in and there was a smattering of boos and a smattering of cheers; I was getting both. And our very popular First Lady — she’s turned out to be very popular –people have great respect for her. But our very popular First Lady said to me, “Huh, that’s strange. I’ve never heard anybody booing you.” That was very early on — because I think I called for strong borders or I called for something that other people don’t like, you know. And I knew this would happen. I knew it was going to happen. But the fact that I ran — and I knew as soon as I announced. When I ran, I said, “It’s going to cost me a fortune.” Not only in terms of actual costs — look at my legal costs. You people, everybody — everybody is suing me. I’m being sued by people that I never even heard of. I’m being sued all over the place — and doing very well, but it’s unfair. But I’ll say this: In terms of running for President — and I don’t think rich people — Michael Bloomberg spent now, it was determined, almost a billion dollars and look what happened. I think it’s very hard for rich people to run for office. It’s — it’s far more costly. It’s just a — it’s a very tough thing. Now, with all of that being said, I’m so glad I’ve done it. Because, you know, there are a lot rich people around. I’ve got a lot of rich friends, but they can’t help and they can’t do what I’ve done, in terms of helping this country. We are — we are doing things. We got sidetracked by the invisible enemy. But, you know — what — when you look at what we’ve done, I said before, with the veterans, with — with all of the things we’ve done, especially Choice. But when you look at all of — Accountability — when you look at all of the things that we’ve done — rebuilding the military; the tax cuts, which — thank goodness we had the tax cuts because we had cushion. Oh, without that, this would have been catastrophic. We had a big cushion. I mean, with all of the losses that you’ve seen in the stock market, we’re basically back — and with this horrible thing, if this would have happened before, you would have had nothing left. This was all cushion. But I will say that it cost me billions of dollars to be President, and especially with all the money I could have made for the last three, four years — and I didn’t because I was being President. I have no interest in it. I’m allowed to. You know, I don’t know if you know it — George Washington, they say he was a rich man, supposedly. Relatively rich. And he ran the presidency and he also ran his business. They say he had two desks. Nobody complained until I came along. I got elected as a rich person, but nobody complained until I came along. So it cost me billions of dollars to be President and I am so happy I did it. Because who cares? Who cares? I’m really happy with the job we’re doing. And I’m glad that this team and me are here for this horrible thing. I mean, it’s — a number of people have said it, but — and I feel it, actually: I’m a wartime president. This is a war. This is a war. A different kind of war than we’ve ever had. And when you look at the economics of the war — in the past, we used to stimulate to get people jobs. Now we’re stimulating to protect people because we don’t want them to work, because we want them to stay away from each other. We don’t want them to gather. Social — social gathering. So we’re paying billions of dollars more than that so that they don’t gather, they don’t — because we have to defeat this virus. And we will. But it cost me billions and billions of dollars to be President and I am so happy I did it. Go ahead. How about you? Well, we do help foreign countries. I mean, that was the other question. And I’m honored to help. And the doctor has helped. The Surgeon General is speaking to other countries all the time. They’re asking him questions: “What do we do?” Nobody has ever seen anything like this. They’re calling our people all of the time. And, yes, I have let it be known that we’ll help people, including North Korea, including Iran, and including many other countries. It’s very important to do that. So — no, not in the stimulus bill, but we are very much — I mean, we give away billions of dollars for, as an example, AIDS in Africa. We’re still fighting that battle. It’s a tremendous battle. A tremendous war, also. But we’re fighting it here, as you know. In 10 years — now it’s eight years, because I started it. It should’ve been started before — long before I got here because they had the answer even before. But we’re fighting that battle. We’ll be AIDS-free in approximately eight years. It looks like that is going to happen. We’re spending a lot of money. But we’re spending a lot of money with other countries. If you look at the aid that we give to other countries, we give billions and billions and billions of dollars to other countries. And a lot of times, I say, “You know, we could save a lot of money. We shouldn’t…” And then, they come in. I say, “What’s it used for?” “It’s used to fight malaria in countries that are very poor. It’s used to fight AIDS in Africa. It’s used to fight many other things.” Many other things. And I don’t think I’ve ever said, “No.” I can’t. It’s just so terrible. Countries that we have really — we’re not involved with them very much, other than there would be tremendous death. Tremendous death. I mean, you could get a list — and I could get you a list. We give away billions of dollars to other countries. And we are giving away a lot, in terms of everything, and probably will end up doing — economically, doing something for other countries. But when I’m presented with these lists –that, “Yes, sir, in Africa, we’re fighting AIDS” or we’re fighting something else — I’ll tell you what, I start off by saying, “You know, we should save — we could save a lot of money.” And then, by the time they walked those lists into my office, I say, “We have to keep doing that.” That’s humanity you’re talking — How about one more question? Yes, please. Well, states have to call — that’s a great governor. You’re talking about Greg Abbott in Texas. And he’s a great governor and he knows what he’s doing. A lot of the areas that he’s talking about — a lot of the counties he’s talking about are not very strongly affected. You know, it’s a very different kind of a place and a great place. But I have total confidence in Governor Greg Abbott. I’ll do one more. Go ahead. Yeah, sure. Because it’s — every state is different. Every state is different. I mean, Idaho, West Virginia, Iowa, Nebraska are much different than New York, than California — Los Angeles, as an example, or San Francisco. They’re much different. I mean, it’s — it’s much different. The hotspots right now are State of Washington and — probably, number one, by far, right now is New York. That’s the hotspot like no other hotspot. And California is a hotspot, but New York right now is the leader. There’s no question. All right. Final question. Well, that’s a lawsuit coming out of Texas. Again, that was headed up by Texas. And what we want to do is get rid of the bad healthcare and put in a great healthcare. And we will always — I will say this, I can make this commitment to you: The Republican Party is fully backing preexisting conditions. Now if we could get a great healthcare plan, which would need the House to do — but if we can get a great healthcare plan, we will only do it if we have preexisting conditions totally backed. So, we’re backing preexisting, but we’d like to get rid of bad healthcare. Now, we are running the bad healthcare much better than it was ever run and we’re making it better, but it could be much better than it is. And so what we want to do is terminate it, have a great healthcare, but we will only do it with preexisting. We will back preexisting conditions. Okay. Thank you all very much. Thank you. We’ll be back. We’ll have a meeting tomorrow. Thank you. It was Mario. Oh, did — well, Jose — I watched Jose on NBC the other night. Okay? Mario. Thank you very much. A lot of things going on, and we’re going to be going over to the Hill, and we’re having a lot of meetings. And, from the financial — this is a medical situation, not a financial situation. The financial, though, is moving along very nicely. I want to thank you for being here and update you on the progress we’ve made after a week of extraordinary mobilization in our war against the virus. Governors, mayors, the businesses, charities, and citizens are all working with urgency and speed toward one common goal, which is saving American lives. We’re in communication with foreign countries. It’s now at 148 foreign countries. Can you believe that? One hundred — you talk about a spread. You talk about a violent spread. One hundred and forty-eight countries. Not even believable. This has been a week of national action and of great national solidarity. People are getting along. We’re getting along with Republicans and Democrats and independents and liberals and conservatives. And actually, it’s a very nice thing to see. We’re all one beautiful, big American family, and that’s taking place right now. Last night, I proved a major disaster declaration for the State of New York. I worked very closely with Governor Cuomo. And is the first time in our nation’s history that a President has used the Stafford Act to declare a major disaster in response to a public health crisis. Never happened before. I’m considering other areas where we may or may not be doing that. And I’m working very closely with Gavin Newsom, Governor of California, and others; we may be doing the same thing, depending on their needs, depending on what they’re asking for. It’s been unprecedented action in New York, and we’ve had a tremendous federal response all over the country. And I want to thank all the people in the federal government and obviously in the state governments and local governments. We are working hard. Everybody is working hard. And the people standing alongside of me are working very hard, that I can tell you. We’ve also reached agreements with Canada and Mexico on new travel rules at our northern and southern borders to halt the entry of the Chinese virus while continuing trade and commerce. And we’ve had very good talks, I’ve — with Prime Minister Trudeau, and today, this morning, with President López Obrador. And we talked about joint measures that we’re taken to prevent the spread of the virus in our countries and to temporarily suspend nonessential travel. We had a great conversation this morning — the President of Mexico. And our close cooperation with Mexico and Canada will keep our people healthy, keep their people healthy, keep everybody safe. Yesterday, I had a call with 12,000 small businesses — representatives of these businesses. That’s the engine of our country. People don’t realize that. You know, you read all about the big ones, but the — these small businesses, when you add them up together, are really the engine — economic engine of our country. And I assured them that my administration is doing everything within its very considerable — considerable power, frankly, to support them and their employees. Nobody has ever done what we’ve done. Likewise, I had calls during the week with all sorts of representatives and systems, like the hospital system. We spoke to many of the hospital systems throughout the country — nurses and doctors, representatives representing hundreds of thousands of nurses and doctors; airlines and cruise ship companies. The business roundtable, which was fully attended and it’s all of the top CEOs of our country and beyond, frankly — the businessmen of — really, these a world — world-styled businessmen. These are businessmen that control the biggest companies in the world. Many of them have taken hits, and many of them are just, you know, going forward. They — their businesses have been — have been great. Some have been very badly affected, some haven’t been affected at all, and, frankly, some are doing very well. They continue to do very well. It’s — Walmart, as an example, has been really helpful to us. Doug McMillon, the head of Walmart — really helpful to us. And I guess — I assume they’re doing pretty well because people are certainly buying — buying more than even a clip at Christmas, by substantial numbers. Pretty amazing. But they’re doing incredibly. They put on tremendous extra staff. You don’t have empty shelves. A lot of things have happened that are very good. Restaurants, fast food executives, grocery stores, all retailers — literally, all of them — in groups. And we spoke with the G7 leaders at length, as you know. You probably know about that. Spoke to many of the governors. Spoke almost all of the governors at conference calls and many of the governors individually. And, very importantly, the religious leaders. We had a great conversation yesterday — the Vice President and myself — with the religious leaders of — of our country. Many of the religious leaders. And we’ve had a number of them, during the course of the last two weeks, actually. But yesterday, we had a very, very significant call with the religious leaders of our country. I signed legislation providing American workers with paid sick leave and paid family medical leave at no cost to employers and free testing for those who need it. The testing is going very well and the Admiral will speak to that, along with Tony. We’re working quickly to pass additional legislation that will provide massive relief to small businesses and affected industries and give direct payments to our great workers and hardworking American families. There’s never been anything like we’re doing on the Hill right now. They’re negotiating — Mitch McConnell, Chuck Schumer. They’re all up there — Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi. They’re all negotiating and everybody is working hard and they want to get to a solution that’s the right solution. I think we’re getting very close. We’ve also announced that we’ve moved Tax Day from April 15 to July 15, which is a big deal, giving businesses and individuals extra time to file and pay without interest or penalty. So we’ve moved the date way back. And so it’ll be July 15, instead of your traditional April 15. And, very importantly, you will have a lot of time, but you’re not going to have interest penalties or any kind of penalties by filing at that later date. HUD announced that foreclosures and evictions are suspended for single-family homeowners with FHA-insured mortgages for the next 60 days. And our great head of HUD, who’s with us today, Ben Carson, is going to say a few words in a moment. The Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing — which is another big deal — requirements for students in elementary through high school for the current school year. Not fair to do that, so we are waiving that. I would imagine it’s probably the first time ever that has been waived, but I think it’s only fair to the students and to the parents of the students. It is also waiving interest and other things that we’re discussing right now on federally held student loans and directed that borrowers be allowed to suspend their student loan payments without penalty for at least 60 days. And we’ll be talking about student loans; going to help the students. They’re under a great burden right now, so we will be talking about that further. But we’re — we’re waiving, during this 60-day period, various elements — very important elements — on student loans. Big subject. I signed an executive order invoking the Defense Production Act, as you all know, giving us powerful new authorities to help states, cities, and hospitals procure needed supplies. There’s been a clear call to action to the private sector, and the call is made right here. It’s been really pretty amazing what’s happened with the private sector — they are really in sixth gear, I think — which has responded in full force, helping to produce and supply much-needed masks, swabs, sanitizers, ventilators, and everything else. There’s a move on that’s incredible right now. And, by way of example, Hanes — everybody knows Hanes; great company, great consumer cotton products company — is retrofitting its manufacturing capabilities in large sections of their plants to produce masks. And they’re in that process right now. And, at my direction, the FDA is taking rapid steps to make these items available for medical use right now. Most excitingly to me is what the FDA has done in order to get, possibly, a very successful number — it’s not just one or two — number of therapeutics: medicines that can help — help people that are already sick, help people not get sick. And, obviously, you know about the vaccine. And Tony will discuss that a little bit later, but the vaccine is moving along. But this is something that, right now — for right now, this is what we really — it’s incredible. And what the FDA has done and Dr. Stephen Hahn, who is highly respected — came as a — just a highly respected man. He’s been fantastic. He’s only been here for a couple of months and he’s — he’s gotten thrown into the swim of it and he’s really standing up. But the FDA has really moved mountains. I said it this morning: They’ve moved mountains to get approvals on things that — that maybe work. We’ll find out very soon. It won’t take long. An example of the Pernod Ricard, which is — this is really an example where we’re repurposing alcohol. They went out and repurposed their alcohol production capabilities in Arkansas, Kentucky, Texas, and West Virginia to make hand sanitizer. That’s a big difference. And they’ve been unbelievable. They really — Pernod Ricard. Their first delivery will be on Tuesday. It’s going to go to various states. They’re going to start, I think, in New York and they’re going to work their way around. They’re making a tremendous amount of hand sanitizer — at a very high level too, by the way. We’ve activated the National Response Coordination Center to Level 1. That’s your highest level. This is the nerve center of all of our government response to crisis and it’s coordinating very closely with our nation’s governors. Our nation’s governors — many of you were at the call yesterday with the governors and I think you can see the relationship. And we’ve had numerous calls with governors, by the way, but the relationships are pretty amazing. They like — they’re loving what we’re doing and the coordination between the federal government and the governors, states, and even local has been pretty incredible. FEMA Administrator Pete Gaynor, who is with us, will soon be providing you with an update on the Center’s operations. And FEMA has been incredible. We got them involved last week — very much involved — and now they’re involved nationwide. We’ve dramatically expanded telehealth so Americans can see a doctor without leaving home — something which more and more people are using and now they’re really using it. And now the ones that are using it are loving it. And I think we’re going to change the way our country functions, medically and probably in other ways, because of what’s going on right now. This will reduce the chance of infection and preserve hospital capacity. So it solves a lot of problems. Every American has a role to play in defending our nation from this invisible, horrible enemy. It really is — it’s an invisible enemy. And we will be successful — very successful — hopefully very much sooner than people would even think. So we say, “Stay at home and save lives.” This is a time of shared national sacrifice, but it’s also a time to treasure our loved ones and to take stock of what is most important: our faith, our families, our neighbors, and our great country. And I want to thank all of the incredible people of our country, the citizens of our country that — what you’ve done and the way you’re responding has just been very special — something that we will never forget, that the history books will never forget. And we’re going to have a great victory. We’re going to be celebrating a great victory in the not-too-distant future. And I just want to thank everybody. And now I’ll introduce our Vice President, Mike Pence, who’s led the Task Force. And I will tell you this: He has not slept much. Maybe a tiny bit, maybe a little bit, but not much. And he’s done an incredible job. Mike, thank you. Please. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Admiral, please. Thank you very much, Admiral. Dr. Fauci, please. Thank you, Tony, very much. Please. Thank you very much, Pete. Appreciate it. Ben, please. Okay. Ben, thank you very much. A few questions, please. I just took one. I feel great. I feel great. I hope I look good. I feel great. Those people are going to be — I took one test. Well, what they do right now is keep receiving their paycheck, and hopefully their companies are going to be in a very strong position. We want to keep everything together because we think we’re going to have a tremendous bounce back. Now, some people agree with that very strongly. Some of our top economists, they think we’re going to have a very — once we solve the problem of — that we’re working on — the medical problem. So we want them to keep their jobs, stay where you are, and we’ll see what happens. Now, if they don’t, we have unemployment, we have checks, we have a lot of things happening, a lot of very positive things. Nobody has ever done — now, this is working with Democrats; this is Republicans and Democrats and myself working together. Nobody has ever done a package like this. It’s a great package, but ideally, we want them to be able to keep their jobs, keep the pay coming, and I think that’s going to happen. Kelly, go ahead. Good. Right. Because we have so many companies making so many products — every product that you mentioned, plus ventilators and everything else. We have car companies — without having to use the act. If I don’t have to use — specifically, we have the act to use, in case we need it. But we have so many things being made right now by so many — they’ve just stepped up. In fact, Mike Pence and I were discussing it before. We’ve never seen anything like it where they are volunteering. “We want to make masks. We want to…” Like Hanes or — I brought that up as an example. General Motors, I bring that up as another. Ford. They’re going — they’re going to go on the open market. We want them on the open market from a — the standpoint of pricing. Because otherwise, it’s going to be — we could be very unfairly treated. We are directing states — and sometimes we’ll be competing against states, which I don’t want, and we’ll drop out of the bidding. We want the states to go first. And, you know, what we’re doing is we’re helping states. That’s what we want to do. Same thing with the testing. We’re helping states. We’re helping states get to where they want, and we’ve made tremendous progress in every aspect of it. It’s happening fast — Well, it’s happening fast right now, and the governors are out there trying to get — and if they are competing with us, we immediately drop out. Please. My people are and I’ll be staying here. I’ll be in the Oval Office and various other places in the White House. Right. Okay. So I’ve spoken with — I’m not going to say who I speak with, but I’ve spoken with, directly or indirectly, everybody — many, many times. We’re doing very well. I think the Democrats and the Republicans are going to come up with a package that’s going to be really something very special. It’s going to help people. This is the first time there’s ever been a case where you want people not to work. It’s always — you know, you want to create incentive to work. We’re creating not an incentive not to work, but the fact is we’re asking people not to work because of — we have — they have to stay away from each other. If we’re going to kill this horrible, hidden enemy, we have to stay away. So there’s never been a thing like this in the history of the world. And other nations are doing similar things — some effectively, some not effectively. They’re doing similar things. We are creating a package that’s going to keep companies together, keep workers paid, so they can live and sustain. We’ll see what the timing is. The biggest thing we can do is get rid of the problem. The problem is exactly what we know: the medical problem. We want to have this whole, incredible situation that it can start right away — not that all these companies break up, all the workers are out of jobs, you can’t put it back together, and it would take years to put them back together. Because we had the greatest economy in the history of the world until we got hit by this problem. And we can be back very, very quickly and it’s our intention to be back very, very quickly. So we’re doing a package, the likes of which nobody has ever done before. I’m obviously the one that has to approve the different things and the recommendations of the different things. And — like buybacks, as an example, and stock buybacks. I didn’t like it the first time and this time I’m saying, “You’re not doing it. I don’t want money to be used for that.” I want money to be used for workers and for opening businesses, keeping businesses open, not buybacks. And — Well, I — I would — I am strongly recommending a buyback exclusion. You cannot buy back your stock. You can’t take a billion dollars of the money and just buy back your stock and increase the value. Please. Mike, go ahead. When will the masks start coming in? That’s what you’d — Yeah, that’s what I’d like to know: When will they ? He’s worse than I am. And we have a lot of them that have already come in. A lot have already come in. I have to tell you, the throwing away of the mask — being in private business, the throwing away of the mask right away — they’re thrown away. And when you hear 55 million masks were ordered, I’m saying, “55 million? How could it possibly be such a number?” And they say, “Oh, that’s just a small fraction of what we need.” And I said, “Why aren’t we sanitizing masks?” You know, you look at the masks — I’ve looked at all the different masks. Some don’t lend themselves to doing that, I think, but many do. And I said, “Why aren’t we…” — we have very good liquids for doing this, sanitizing the masks. And that’s something they’re — they’re starting to do more and more. They’re sanitizing the masks. And I don’t know if anybody would like to speak to that. You might want to just — I would have liked that much better, personally. Yeah. Go ahead, Mike. Yesterday. You mean the ones that are saying good things or bad things? Well, I’ll tell you the way I look at it. So, many administrations preceded me. For the most part, they did very little, in terms of what you’re talking about. This is unprecedented. You can speak to Tony; you could speak to anybody. This is unprecedented or just about unprecedented. As time goes by, we’re seeing it’s really at a level that nobody would’ve believed. Nobody would’ve thought possible that this could happen. And we are making much of this stuff now. And much of it’s being delivered now. We’ve also gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people that can’t believe how fast it’s coming. I mean, when I hear they have an order of 55 million masks — and that’s just one order; that’s one order out of many — and that there are many millions of masks beyond that that are ready — and I keep saying, “How is it possible to use so much?” But that’s the way it is. And part of that is because they’ll use a mask for a short period of time and they throw it. The fact is that we are doing a tremendous amount. We started with very few masks. We had some, but nothing for an event like this. And now we’re making tens of millions of masks and other things. And I think it’s unprecedented what we’ve done and what we’re doing. And many doctors — and I’ve read many, many doctors, they can’t believe the great job that we’ve done. Yes. Kelly, did you have one? Well, if you remember — — I was the one that closed the country down. I was the one that closed the — you don’t write that or you don’t say it too much, certainly on CNN. But I just read an article yesterday — I just read an article yesterday that, by closing the country down so early — we were very early — we saved tens of thousands — and much more than that — lives. So you know, you might want to report that, too. Tony, would you like to say something about that? Sooner. Sooner. It’s sooner than weeks. And, again, what we’re doing is we’re trying to help the states get things faster. And that’s what we’re doing: We’re implementing. And the magnitude of this — it’s a tragedy. It’s an absolute tragedy. But the magnitude is something that, no matter who you were, no matter where you come from, nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. You read about 1917 and you read about certain things, but you think, in a modern age, a thing like that could never happen. Well, it comes back. It is genius. It comes back. And it’s too bad. But I think the people working on this have been incredible. The job they’ve done has really been incredible. But there’s tremendous amounts of — not only masks — of ventilators and respirators and everything you can think of. It’s all being — much of it and almost, I could say, all of it is being manufactured right now. Steve, please. Well, I don’t know that — “resolved.” I can say that it’s going to be distributed. I know New York is getting, I think, 10,000 units, and numerous other people. It’s really — it could be the malaria drug plus the Z-Pak. But — and we’re going to find out. We’re going to find out. I feel — look, I feel, as the expression goes, “What do we have to lose?” Because, you know, I feel very — I feel very good about it. Tony would feel, you know, like — he’d like samples done in a certain way. And I understand that too. Many doctors agree with that. We don’t have much time. You know, we have a lot of very sick people right now in hospitals all over the place. And speaking with the Governor of New York — Cuomo — I said, “How does it look?” He’s got a lot of sick people. So we’re going to be delivering a lot of samples to New York and other places, and we’re going to find out very shortly whether or not it’s going to work. I feel very confident. I mean, I’ve seen things that surprise me, frankly. There are — as Tony said, there are other things we’re looking at too. Vaccine, of course, is incredible, but this is more immediate. Right now, this, to me, would be the greatest thing that could happen. This would be a gift from Heaven. This would be a gift from God if it works. So we’re going to pray to God that it does work. It’d be a fantastic thing. Yeah, please. In the back. My businesses? Sure. Well, I wouldn’t say you’re thriving when you decide to close down your hotels and your businesses. No, I would say — but, you know, I’m very under-levered and everything, so that’s good. But is it hurting my — yeah. It’s hurting me and it’s hurting Hilton and it’s hurting all of the great hotel chains all over the world. It’s hurting everybody. I mean, there are very few businesses that are doing well. Now, there are some that are. Like, as an example, the Walmarts of the world, because everybody’s lined up to get things and stock up their house, and this and that. But sure, it hurts my business. But — No, I didn’t speak to anybody. I speak to my sons, but — I talk about the coronavirus, but not as it pertains to my business. They basically follow the rules; when they say close them down, in New York, we close them down or wherever they may be. I have them — I actually have them all over the world. And when they say — And when they say, “Close them down,” we close them down. What, Kelly? Well, I have nothing planned at Mar-a-Lago. But, right now, I think Mar-a-Lago, I guess — I haven’t even asked, but I imagine that’s closed down, just like a lot of other businesses in Florida. Go ahead. Go ahead, please. I don’t know. I mean, I just don’t know what the government assistance would be for what I have. I have hotels. Everybody knew I had hotels when I got elected. They knew I was a successful person when I got elected. So it’s one of those things. I guess I get paid $450,000 a year; I give it up. I put it back into the nation. I usually — I have to — by the way, you have to designate where you want it, so I oftentimes give it to opioid research and things. But, as far as the hotels and everything, I mean, I have to do what everyone else is doing. I would probably decide to close things up. I think it’s a good thing nation- — you don’t want people getting together. And hotels and clubs and everything, you get together. We want to beat this deal. So I have many of them — hotels, clubs, things like that — where people get together. I would think it would be a good practice to close them up. Yeah, go ahead, please. Yeah. Well, I do it. I do it. I have temperature tests and I don’t — I didn’t ask everybody here, but I wouldn’t be surprised if they had temperature tests. Otherwise, I’m going to run off the stage. Oh, I think they are, pretty much. The easiest thing is the temperature. I think they are. I don’t know. Are you learning a lot from the temperature test, Tony? Could you maybe discuss that for a second? I took his temperature twice, actually. And I say — I’ve seen things — when Tony mentions thermometers, they aim something at your forehead, they stay this far away, boom, and they tell you what your temperature is. I said, “I’ve never seen that before.” I’ve learned a lot. I’ve learned a lot. It’s incredible. Go ahead, in the back — the back corner. Back corner. Well, I love whoever you’re with. That’s — because I think that’s such a nice — it’s such a nice question. No, I think the Washington Post covers us very inaccurately, covers me very inaccurately. I saw the story. I think it’s a disgrace. But it’s the Washington Post and I guess we have to live with it. It’s a very — It’s a very inaccurate — quiet, quiet. It’s a very inaccurate story. From many people, I get a lot of credit for having closed our country very early to a very heavily infected country: China. Unfortunately, China. I wish China would have told us more about what was going on in China, long prior to us reading about it, even though the news isn’t exactly disseminated. As you know, China kicked the Washington Post out of China and they kicked the New York Times out of China and I guess the Wall Street Journal. That’s okay. I mean, that’s what they do and I think it’s a terrible thing they did. But I also think it’s terrible when people write inaccurately about you. And they write inaccurately about me every single day, every single hour. And, by the way, your group really — I really think — and I just say “fair,” not “good” or “bad” — I think you write very fairly and do very fair reports about the great job that all of us are doing that this group behind me is doing. It’s so insulting when they write phony stories that they know are fake news. Because they’re not insulting me; they’re insulting everybody — these incredible people that have worked so hard, so long, that are thinking about nothing other than this invisible enemy. They have done such an incredible job and they will continue, and we’re going to win, and there’ll be a lot of celebration when we win And we’re going to win with as few lives lost as possible. That’s the game: Win with as few lives lost as possible. It’s a tough enemy. It’s a tough killer. Far bigger, far more vicious than ever before. But I appreciate you saying it because the fact that we closed so early to China — and most people — hey, look, I was called “xenophobic” by Sleepy Joe Biden. I was called a “racist” by Democrats. A racist. I was a racist because I decided that I didn’t want to have people that could hurt our country come in. And I was pretty much in a very small group of people — I will tell you, it was a tiny little group — most people, even that worked in the White House, disagreed with me very strongly. Saving those many weeks was a tremendous — a tremendous thing. And when they keep talking about acting early, that was the ultimate act. That was the biggest act, because we didn’t — and then I also called Europe early. Very early. And I took a lot of heat for that too, but that was a good thing. Now they’re doing similar things that we’re doing. So, I didn’t act late; I acted early. I acted far before anybody thought I should be. I took tremendous criticism from the various papers, from many of the papers. So I — I very much appreciate the question. It might have been — it might have been more of a statement than a question. But whatever it may have been, I appreciate it very much. Yes. No, no. They can do what they want to do. If California can get a mask sooner than we can get it for them, through all of the things we’re able to do — but we’re going to end up with a big oversupply at some point. You know, at some point, this is going away. And we’re going to end up with a big oversupply. And you know what? In this case, that’s going to be okay. But if California — if Gavin can go out and order gowns faster, or masks — good masks — faster, or other things faster, that’s good. We do have a lot of — I mean, the coordination with the ships that we’re sending in, as you know — the medical ships that we’re sending in and even cruise liners — we’re going to be sending in, probably, cruise liners into some areas — in particular, California, and in particular, New York. But if somebody can do something faster, if they can order that mask faster than us, I want them to be able to do it. We coordinate very much with them, yes. Well, it doesn’t have to be at this moment, because we have places in the country where, you know — states where they have two people or three people and those people are in quarantine. And you can’t put on them what you’re putting in New York, where you do have a tremendous problem. I mean, we have large portions of the country — Middle America — where, you know, they have a few people. So, it may be a time — I hope that never happens, where we need to take very drastic action. But, right now, that’s not in the same ballpark. Yeah. Go ahead, please. Yes. Yeah. I think they are. And some people are not. But I think they are. I think it’s going to have a very profound effect. I mean, we’ll know a little bit more on day 14 and 15. We’ll see. Well, we’re going to see. We have to see what the result is. We want to flatten that out and we’re going to see what the result is. And, I just want to say: I’m going to negotiate a very large transaction and I’ve been negotiating it for two days. So I’m going to take one or two more questions and then I’m going to leave it to Vice President Pence. On the Hill. With the Hill. The various — the various elements of the package. Steve, go ahead. No, I haven’t. I — look, we understand the difficulty of that. And he’s a very good friend of mine. You talk a — you take a look at Shinzo Abe. He’s a great gentleman. He loves his country. We have an incredible relationship. We just finished a trade deal with them — a $40 billion trade deal with Japan. And Prime Minister Abe has a big decision to make. You know, they have built one of the most beautiful venues I’ve ever seen. They were all ready to go. It’s not late. It’s not over budget. It’s not — it was just done flawlessly, and it’s beautiful. And they’re sitting back and saying, you know — I have — I told him, I said, “That’s your decision.” And it is his decision and I know he’s going to make it soon, I don’t know what it’s going to be, and I didn’t think I should be influencing it at all. I mean, the job that Japan has done on that venue is incredible. So, I mean, there are options, obviously, including delay and maybe delay for next year, but that’s totally up to them. We’ll see what they do. Well, you know, when I learned, I started doing the closings. So, you know, probably around that time. We didn’t learn much. I think you’re going to ask a little bit about China responsibility. I do think that — again, I have great respect for China. I like China. I think the people of China are incredible. I have a tremendous relationship with President Xi. I wish they could have told us earlier about what was going on inside. We didn’t know about it until it started coming out publicly, but I wish they could have told us earlier about it because we could have come up with a solution. Tony Fauci and all of the people — the talent that we have — would have loved to have had three or four months of additional time, if you knew what this was going to be happening. They didn’t have that time. They read about in the newspapers like everybody else. China was very secretive, okay? Very, very secretive. And that’s unfortunate. With that, I have great respect for that country. I have great respect for the leader of that country and like him. He’s a friend of mine. But I wish they were able to — I wish they would have told us earlier, Steve, that they were having a problem. Because they were having a big problem and they knew it, and I wish they could have given us an advanced warning. Because we could have done — we could have had a lot of things — as an example, some of the things that we’re talking about, where we order them as quickly as we can. If we had a two- or three-month difference in time, it would have been much better. Yeah, please. Yeah. Yeah. Because it’s true. Because it’s true. China has worked very hard. China has lost thousands and thousands of people. No, they weren’t transparent. They were transparent at that time, but when we saw what happened, they could have been transparent much earlier than they were. Right. But China — just so you understand, China is not a beneficiary here. China has thousands and thousands of people. China has gone through hell over this. They’ve gone through hell. And I’ve had conversations with President Xi. I just wish they could have told us earlier. They knew they had a problem earlier. I wish they could have said that. Thank you. Well, I’m going to leave that up to Dr. Fauci and everybody else. And I think the answer is: We want to share them. I would imagine we want to share the numbers as — Admiral, do you want to discuss that? Not “billion.” No. Not billion. Yes. I said, “Wait a minute.” Well, there’s never been numbers like this. You know, a ventilator is a machine. It’s a very complex machine. And to think that we have to order hundreds of thousands — nobody has ever heard of a thing like this. You know, when we had, in the stockpile — we had thousands in a stockpile. Thousands, ready to go. That’s a lot. All of a sudden, you need hundreds of thousands. And you’re not talking about — you know, the mask is whether it’s plastic or whether it’s material; that’s one thing. But you’re talking about a very sophisticated, heavily computerized machine — and delicate. And you need hundreds of thousands of them. Nobody has ever heard of a thing like that. With that being said, General Motors, Ford, so many companies — I had three calls yesterday directly. Without having to institute — like, “You will do this” — these companies are making them right now. But to think of these numbers, it’s pretty — it’s pretty mindboggling. Well — Mike, go ahead, please. You understand it. You understand it. You’re an intelligent woman, Kelly. You understand exactly what he’s saying. And what he’s is rather incredible because we — we inherited an obsolete, broken system. And when you hear the number of tests that we’ll be providing –and are now — it’s incredible. And I’ve heard a lot of governors say the same thing. We took over an obsolete, broken testing system that wouldn’t have worked for even a small problem, let alone one of the biggest pandemics in history. And what these gentlemen have done is incredible. I am going now to negotiate a great deal for our workers and our citizens. I’ll be back tomorrow. We’re probably doing this tomorrow. And, if I might, I’d like to ask Vice President Pence to take over. And thank you all very much. Thank you very much. I had a very good telephone conversation — extremely good — with Senator Schumer a little while ago. We’re working on various elements of the deal, and the Democrats are very much wanting something to happen, and the Republicans, likewise, are very much wanting something to happen. And I think it will. I spoke with — at length with Mitch McConnell. And there’s tremendous spirit to get something done, so we’ll see what happens. But my conversation was very good with Senator Schumer. I thank you all for joining us, and I’d like to begin by providing an update on what we are doing to minimize the impact of the Chinese virus on our nation’s students. With many schools closed due to the virus, the Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing requirements, very importantly, for students in elementary through high school for the current year. They’ve been through a lot. They’ve been going back and forth; schools open, schools not open. It’s been all standardized testing. And, you know, it’s — we’re not going to be enforcing that, so I think you can let people know. I think probably a lot of the students will be extremely happy; some probably not. The ones that work hard, maybe not. But it’s one of those things. Unfortunate — very unfortunate circumstance. We’ve also temporarily waived all interest on federally held student loans. They’ll be very happy to hear that. And I’ve instructed them to take that action immediately. And today, Secretary DeVos has directed federal lenders to allow borrowers to suspend their student loans and loan payments without penalty for at least the next 60 days. And if we need more, we’ll extend that period of time. Borrowers should contact their lenders, but we’ve given them very strong instructions. So we’ve temporarily waived all interest on federally held student loans. That’s a big thing. That’s going to make a lot of students very happy. And we have more to come on student loans — more good news for the students — but we’ll do that at a different time. This morning, the Treasury Department also announced that we’re moving Tax Day from April 15 to July 15. So we’re moving it out to July 15th so that people will have time and people will be able to — hopefully, by that time, we’ll have people getting back to their lives. Families and businesses will have this extra time to file with no interest or penalties. We’re getting rid of interest and penalties. However, if you have refunds or credits you would like to claim, you may still file. In other words, you can file early if you are owed money by the IRS. Other than that, we’re moving it all the way out to July 15th — no interest, no penalties. Your new date will be July 15. Today, our team will also provide an update on our continuing effort to prevent the transmission of virus across America’s borders. And I watched what’s been happening in California with Governor Newsom and, this morning, with Governor Cuomo, and I applaud them. They’re taking very strong, bold steps, and I applaud them. And we’re all working together. We’re working very closely together, including those two governors. But I would say, based on the call — the media was there — I think we can say that, with respect to virtually every governor on that call, I think every governor — we had almost all of them, if not all of them — and I would say that you could see for yourselves that the level of respect and esprit de corps working together was extraordinary. There was nobody angry, nobody upset. We’re able to help them, and that’s what we’re all about. We want to help. We’re doing things that a lot of people wouldn’t be able to do. But the relationship with governors and states is, I think, very extraordinary, especially under the circumstances where this just came upon us. We’re working with Canada and Mexico to prevent the spread of the virus across North America, very closely. You heard what we did yesterday with Canada. And Secretary of State Pompeo will be making a statement in a little while having to do with Mexico and the border. And Chad likewise — Chad Wolf will likewise be making a statement. This is a joint comprehensive effort in collaboration with our neighbors. The measure and all of those measures that we’re putting in place will protect the health of all three nations and reduce the incentive for a mass global migration that would badly deplete the healthcare resources needed for our people. And so we are working very closely with Mexico, very, very closely with Canada. The relationship has never been better. We’re all working for the same — toward the same goal. Our nation’s top healthcare officials are extremely concerned about the grave public health consequences of mass uncontrolled cross-border movement. And that would be mostly — and even beyond — but mostly during this global pandemic. Every week, our border agents encounter thousands of unscreened, unvetted, and unauthorized entries from dozens of countries. And we’ve had this problem for decades. For decades. You know the story. But now it’s — with the national emergencies and all of the other things that we’ve declared, we can actually do something about it. We’re taking a very strong hold of that. And we have before, but this is now at a level that nobody has ever approached. In normal times, these massive flows place a vast burden on our healthcare system, but during a global pandemic, they threaten to create a perfect storm that would spread the infection to our border agents, migrants, and to the public at large. Left unchecked, this would cripple our immigration system, overwhelm our healthcare system, and severely damage our national security. We’re not going to let that happen. So we have a lot of information, and they’ll be discussing that in a moment. To confront these public health degrees [dangers], the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has decided to exercise its authority under the Title 42 of the U.S. Code to give Customs and Border Protection the tools it needs to prevent the transmission of the virus coming through both the northern and the southern border. So we’re treating the borders equally — the northern border and the southern border. It’s being treated — they’re both being treated equally. A lot of people say that they’re not treated equally. Well, they are. As we did with Canada, we’re also working with Mexico to implement new rules at our ports of entry to suspend non-essential travel. These new rules and procedures will not impede lawful trade and commerce. Furthermore, Mexico is taking action to secure our own southern border and suspend air travel from Europe. So we’re coordinating very closely the air travel going to Mexico and then trying to come into the United States. The actions we’re taking together with our North American partners will save countless lives. At the conclusion of my remarks, Secretary Azar, Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Wolf — we’re going to be also taking some questions with Tony and Deborah, who you’ve gotten to know very well — but they’ll be discussing certain things, and I think you’ll find them of great interest. We’re going to be providing tremendous amounts of detail over the coming days, but a lot of it will be provided right now if you’d like to find out about it. This has been a week of resolute action, tremendous action. Tremendous relationships have developed with people that, frankly, didn’t get along. People that didn’t like each other, they’re now working together and maybe, even in some cases, learning about each other and liking each other. It’s a nice thing. I invoked the Defense Production Act, and last night, we put it into gear. We moved the National Response Coordination Center to the highest level of activist [sic]. I mean, if you — if you take a look at what we did, the level of activation has been increased to a grade one level, which is the highest level. We’re providing historic support to small businesses and to the states. The states need support. Normally they do this themselves, but because of the magnitude of it, the federal government has gotten very much involved in terms of getting the equipment they need. So we’re helping them. It’s — it’s a responsibility they have, but we are helping the states a lot. That’s why the governors, I think in every case, have been impressed and very nice. We enacted legislation guaranteeing paid sick leave for workers at no cost to employers. And I think it’s very important. So they get paid sick leave at no cost to employers. We’re accelerating the use of new drug treatments. We’re advancing legislation to give direct payments to hardworking families. Throughout our country, Americans from all walks of life are rallying together to defeat the unseen enemy striking our nation. In times of struggle, we see the true greatness of the American character, and we are seeing that. A lot of people are talking about it. We’re at 141 countries, from what they’re telling me, and some of those countries are really working in a unified manner. And they’re working very unified with us, almost — I could say a good — a good number of them. Doctors and nurses are working nonstop to heal the sick. Citizens and churches are delivering meals to the needy. Truckers are making the long haul to keep shelves stocked. We’ve been dealing with the big stores and the big chains, Walmart — they’ve been fantastic — and others. They’ve all been fantastic. We’ve made it much easier for them to stock. In terms of travel and travel restrictions, we’re lifting restrictions so they can get their trucks on time. You’re seeing very few empty shelves, and yet the amount of volume that they are doing is unprecedented because people want to have what they have to have, what they feel they have to have. And they’re also buying in slightly smaller quantities, which is good — because we’re not going anywhere. We’re going to be here. So I want to thank all of those very great companies for working so well. Americans from every walk of life are coming together. And thanks to the spirit of our people, we will win this war, and we are. We’re winning and we’re going to win this war. America will triumph and America will rise higher than ever before. We’ll be stronger than ever before, and we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot about relying on other countries, and I can say that I think in both a very good and a very bad way. Some good things came out of it and some not so good things came out of it. So I’d like to move now to invite our team to provide information on the new measures to prevent viral spread at our borders. And I’ll start by asking Secretary of State Pompeo to speak. He’s doing a fantastic job. And like everyone else, he’s been working very, very long and very, very hard. And he’s doing the other more normal jobs of a great Secretary of State, but he got — he got tied into this like everybody else, and he’s been really doing a fantastic job. Mike, please. Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. And we’ll take questions right after this. Chad Wolf, please. Thank you very much, Chad. Really good. Thank you. Please, Secretary? Thank you very much. Thank you. If I could ask Tony or Deb, please. Thank you very much. Tony, please. Thank you, Tony. Mike? Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. Go ahead. Kaitlan. It is. I did it yesterday. We invoked it, I think, the day before we signed it — the evening of the day before — and invoked it yesterday. We have a lot of people working very hard to do ventilators and various other things. Yes. We are using it. We are. We are. For certain things that we need, including — including some of the very important emergency — I would say ventilators, probably more masks, to a large extent. We have millions of masks, which are coming and which will be distributed to the states. The states are having a hard time getting them. So we’re using the act. The act is very good for things like this. We have millions of masks that we’ve ordered. They will be here soon. We’re having them shipped directly to states. Yeah. Last — We — we need — no, it’s no different, other than we need certain equipment that the states are unable to get by themselves. So we’re invoking it to use the powers of the federal government to help the states get things that they need, like the masks, like the ventilators. Yeah, Steve. I don’t think so. Essentially, you’ve done that in California, you’ve done that in New York. Those are really two hotbeds. Those are probably the two hottest of them all, in terms of hotspots. I don’t think so, because you go out to the Midwest, you go out to other locations and they’re watching it on television but they don’t have the same problems. They don’t have, by any means, the same problem. New York, California, Miami — the governor is doing an excellent job. Governor DeSantis in Florida. We have some pretty hot spots in Florida too. But we’re generally — and the State of Washington, of course, but that was largely — if you look at it, it was one nursing home that had problems like you wouldn’t believe. So, no, we’re working with the governors and I don’t think you’ll — I don’t think we’ll ever find that necessary. I am happy. I am happy with it. We’ll have to see what the results are at the end of 14 days, let’s say. We’ll know by the 15th day to see what we do. But I’m certainly honored by the way the American people are working — because it’s work. It’s work not to work. This is the first this has ever happened. And we’re working out a tremendous financial package for them so they don’t work. Whoever heard of this? Usually, you work out a financial package to get people working. We’re asking people not to work. Social distancing — a new terms that’s become probably the hottest term there is. So, no, I’m very honored by the way the American people are taking this, I mean, so seriously. Yes, John. Well, I think that really all of that is being discussed right now. And we talked about, as an example, buyback — stock buybacks. I don’t want to have stock buybacks. I don’t want people spending — I don’t want some executives saying, “We’re going to buy 200,000 shares of stock.” I want that money to be used for the workers, and also for the company — to keep the company going. But not for buybacks. I would — I mean, I haven’t spoken to a lot of the Republicans or Democrats on it. We discussed it. And I — I don’t like buybacks. I didn’t like them the first time. So we’re discussing — we’re discussing that and we’re discussing many things. We’re not so far away, I’ll tell you. We’re not very — we’re not very far away. I think, without saying too much, I’m probably more of a fan of that than — maybe than anybody. But I’m a big fan, and we’ll see what happens. And we all understand what the doctor said is 100 percent correct. It’s early. But we’ve — you know, I’ve seen things that are impressive. And we’ll see. We’re going to know soon. We’re going to know soon — including safety. But, you know, when you get to safety, this has been prescribed for many years for people to combat malaria, which was a big problem. And it’s very effective. It’s a strong — it’s a strong drug. So we’ll see. Yeah, well, we were ordering — yes, we have millions of units ordered. Bayer is one of the companies, as you know. A big company. A very big, very great company. Millions of units are ordered, and we’re going to see what happens. We’re going to be talking to the governors about it, and the FDA is working on it right now. The advantage is that it has been prescribed for a totally different problem, but it has been described [sic] for many years, and everybody knows the levels of — the negatives and the positives. But I will say that I am a man that comes from a very positive school when it comes to, in particular, one of these drugs. And we’ll see how it works out, Peter. I’m not — I’m not saying it will, but I think that people may be surprised. By the way, that would be a game changer. But we’re going to know very soon. But — but we have ordered millions of units. It’s being ordered from Bayer, and there is another couple of companies also that do it. Well, you know, I think we only disagree a little bit. I disagree. Maybe and maybe not. Maybe there is, maybe there isn’t. We have to see. We’re going to know. We’re going to know soon. No, I don’t think so. No. No, I don’t think so. I think that — I think it’s gotten — Such a lovely question. Look, it may work and it may not work. And I agree with the doctor, what he said: It may work, it may not work. I feel good about it. That’s all it is. Just a feeling. You know, I’m a smart guy. I feel good about it. And we’re going to see. You’re going to see soon enough. And we have certainly some very big samples of people, if you look at the people. You have a lot of people that are in big trouble. And this is not a drug that — obviously, I think I can speak for a lot of — from a lot of experience, because it’s been out there for over 20 years. So it’s not a drug that you have a huge amount of danger with. It’s not like a brand-new drug that’s been just created that may have an unbelievable monumental effect, like kill you. We’re going know very soon. And I can tell you the FDA is working very hard to get it out. Right now, in terms of malaria, if you wanted, you can have a prescription. You get a prescription. And by the way — and it’s very effective. It works. I have a feeling you may — and I’m not being overly optimistic or pessimistic. I sure as hell think we ought to give it a try. I mean, there’s been some interesting things happened and some good — very good things. Let’s see what happens. We have nothing to lose. You know the expression: What the hell do you have to lose? Okay? Jon, go ahead. I say that you’re a terrible reporter. That’s what I say. Go ahead. I think it’s a very nasty question, and I think it’s a very bad signal that you’re putting out to the American people. The American people are looking for answers and they’re looking for hope. And you’re doing sensationalism, and the same with NBC and “Con-cast.” I don’t call it — I don’t call it “Comcast,” I call it “Con-cast.” Let me just — for who you work — let me just tell you something: That’s really bad reporting, and you ought to get back to reporting instead of sensationalism. Let’s see if it works. It might and it might not. I happen to feel good about it, but who knows. I’ve been right a lot. Let’s see what happens. John? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. We are going to — as I understand it, we are going to be taking samples in New York. Governor Cuomo very much is interested in this drug. And they are going to work on it also, after they get a certain approval. We’re waiting for one final approval from the FDA. We’ll see what happens. But we’ll use it on people that are not doing great, or even at the beginning of not feeling well. And, John, what do we have to lose? Wait, John — it’s been out there for so long. We hear good things. Let’s see. Maybe it works and maybe it doesn’t. We’re doing that, I guess. And that’s –that’s what it’s called. Yes. I agree. I agree. Okay. Here we go. Go ahead. Let’s go. My message to the American people is that there is a very low incidence of death. You understand that. And we’re going to come through this stronger than ever before. If you get it, if you happen to get it, it is highly unlikely. It’s looking like it’s getting to a number that’s much smaller than people originally thought, in terms of the ultimate — the ultimate problem, which would be death. My message to the American people is, number one, you’ve done an incredible job. Incredible. What you’ve gone through — it’s been incredible. It wasn’t their fault. It wasn’t their fault. It wasn’t the fault of 140 other countries where this has happened. And there is tremendous hope. And I think we’re going to come out stronger, better, bigger, in every way. I think we’re going to be a better country than we were before. And we learned a lot. We learned on reliance — who to rely on, who not to rely on. But our country — our country has been incredible, the way they pulled together — including the fact that I just spoke to Senator Schumer. We had a wonderful conversation. We both want to get to a good solution. But it’s been, really, for me — watching and seeing people, that weren’t speaking, getting along well because we all have one common aim, and that’s to get rid of this invisible enemy, get rid of it fast, and then go back to the kind of economy that we had, and maybe even better. Yeah, please, in the back. No, in the back, please. We’re going to be helping them a lot. We’re going to be focused — a big focus on — including my conversation with both Mitch and with Chuck — a big focus of that conversation with small businesses, because they are really the engine behind our country, more so than the big ones. They are the engine behind our country. I’m not aware of it. I saw some names. I’m not — I know all of them. I know everyone mentioned — Dianne Feinstein, I guess, and a couple of others. I don’t know too much about what it’s about. But I find them to all be very honorable people. That’s all I know. And they — and they said they did nothing wrong. I find them — the whole group — very honorable people. Yeah, please. Well, it also includes Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat. You didn’t mention her name. Why didn’t you mention her name? And I think she’s a very honorable person, by the way, so I’m not saying — but, you know, it’s interesting that — — you mentioned two people but you don’t mention one that happens to be a Democrat. I don’t know, because I’d have to look at it. Possibly. But I find them to be honorable people. Yeah. I do, because I think Peter is — you know, I’ve dealt with Peter for a long time. And I think Peter is not a good journalist when it comes to fairness. Right. That’s true. That’s true. Well, I have to say this: We have — and I can speak for myself, but I have a very good relationship with China and with President Xi. I have great respect for President Xi. I consider him to be a friend of mine. It’s unfortunate that this got out of control. It came from China. It got out of control. Some people are upset. I know — I know President Xi. He loves China. He respects the United States. And I have to say, I respect China greatly and I respect President Xi. Okay? Please. No, but I never liked stock buybacks from their standpoint. When we did a big tax cut, and when they took the money and did buybacks, that’s not building a hangar, that’s not buying aircraft, that’s not doing the kind of things that I want them to do. And we’re now talking about buybacks. We didn’t think we would have had to restrict it because we thought they would have known better. But they didn’t know better, in some cases — not in all cases, obviously; some people did an incredible job. They built plants all over the country. I mean, you see what’s happened. I mean, we were doing — until this invisible enemy appeared, we were — I mean, we never had an economy like this. But there were some companies that used that money to buy back stock, driving up the price of the stock artificially, in many cases. I don’t like that. I don’t like it. And as far as whether or not we’ll have that, allow them — when we give them money — because we have to keep these great companies in business because of the workers; frankly, for the most part, because of the workers. The workers are my number one concern. But the way we take care of the workers is we have to keep the companies going. I am fine with restricting buybacks. In fact, I would — I would demand that there be no stock buybacks. I don’t want them taking hundreds of millions of dollars and buying back their stock, because that does nothing. Yeah. Please. Yeah. Sure. And one thing: Secretary of State Pompeo is extremely busy, so if you have any question for him right now, could you do that? Because — you know what I’d like to do? I’d like him to go back to the State Department or, as they call it, the “Deep State Department.” If you don’t mind, I’d like to have him go back and do his job. So does anybody have any question? Please. Yeah. How about you. Only — only for the Secretary. Chad. And just to put it, you know, when you said — before, you said the non-Mexicans going to Mexico. We’re not sending them to Mexico; we’re sending them back to their own countries, not to Mexico. Why would Mexico take people that aren’t from Mexico? We’re sending them back. In the case of Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, a lot of other countries, they go back to the country from where they came. Okay? And, Mike, please. Please. You’re another one. Yes, Steve. Go ahead, please. Steve? Maybe we shouldn’t say that. We know plenty. They know the answer. Ira- — they know the answer — Iran. The leaders. They know the answer to your question. What a good answer. Yes, go ahead. It’s very true too. Go ahead. No, behind you. Please, go ahead. Excuse me — we’ll do it in a second. Let Mike — he has to get back — he has to get back to work. Should have — Should have let us know. Well, I’d rather have — if you could finish up with the Secretary of State. Is everybody finished — Secretary of State? Well, I can just say the entire world is agreeing with us because they’re all — they all have their choice, and everybody is doing the exact same thing. We want to shut it out, and we can do that. And we’ll see what happens in two weeks, in three weeks. But if we can save thousands of lives, and even millions of lives, potentially — you don’t know where it goes. But you could be talking about millions of lives. So if you look at the world — I mean, you have some very smart people in the world. You have some smart leaders in the world. And everybody is doing it the way we’re doing it. I think we’re doing a better job than hopefully most, if not all. We’re doing a very effective job. But we’ll — we’ll know better in 14 or 15 days. But, you know, you’re talking about hundreds of thousands — and maybe more than that — numbers of people. And, you know, we can bring our finances back very quickly. We can’t bring the people back. Yeah, I agree with that. But I think I’d like to have Anthony answer that, because to be honest, that’s what he does. And he — we have a lot of — a lot of very talented people telling us what they think we should do. Okay, so, Secretary of State will be leaving. Any other question for him? Go ahead. In the back. Please. In the back for Mike. Excuse me, I didn’t call on you. Go ahead. Well, I just think this: I’m not dealing — Yeah, I’m not dealing with him. I’m dealing with the governor. And the governor agrees with me, and I agree with him. So far, we’ve been very much in sync. I guess they’re not agreeing with each other, necessarily. But the relationship with New York — I love New York. I grew up in New York, as you probably have heard, and the relationship has been very good. And I think government and the governor have been getting along incredibly well with the federal government. Okay. Any — anybody? About the what? Yeah. It will be. Well, we’re working on it. Well, I believe in a lot of things. I want to get workers money. And whichever way the best way to get it — and I want to keep the businesses open too, because without the businesses, they’re not going to be getting money for very long. But we’re going to be — we’re going to be talking. If there’s not, we’ll do something later, I am sure. I am sure we’ll do something. We’re not talking about a thousand-dollar check. We’re talking about much more than that. We’re also talking about doing phases. If this doesn’t work, we’re going to keep doing until we get it going. And, frankly, once we get the economy back and once this enemy is defeated — the invisible enemy, as I call it — once it’s defeated, we get the economy back, it’s going to all come back to us very quickly. It comes back very quickly. We have a tremendous economy. We do numbers like no other country has ever done before. Number one in the world, if you go back two weeks — and still, obviously. But if you go back two weeks, number one in the world, by far. That money comes back to us very rapidly. We want to keep it — we want to have it so that when we — not “if,” but when we win the war with the invisible enemy — when we win it, these companies can immediately start — not that they have to start rebuilding, which takes a long time. Steve. Steve. Please. Please. I’m — I’m confident. I am confident. Well, we’re looking at different numbers. We have a best case and not best case, but the big thing is to defeat the virus. Once that virus is defeated, Steve, I think everything else falls in place very rapidly. I think you’re going to have a tremendous upswing. A lot of people agree with me. A lot of — if you look at your stock market geniuses — some of whom are not geniuses, but they think they are — a lot of people think that I’m right about that, that once we defeat the virus, I think you’re going to have a very steep — like a rocket ship. It’s going to go up and everything will be back, and I really believe we’re going to be stronger than ever before. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Absolutely. Well, you heard my news conference yesterday. So, you know, that’s not — I mean, that was — that was sort of yesterday’s news. No. That does happen because they want to buy supplies. We want to buy as a backup to them, in case they can — and sometimes that will happen. But regardless of who gets them, when they need them, we’re getting them to them. Now, we’re doing the Production Act. We’re doing it very much. And we have a lot of things cooking right now at a high level. Remember this: Nothing like this has ever happened before. Over 140 countries. And you have supply chains that are broken down for two reasons: because they can’t supply that much and because people are sick. They can’t be on the chain. So you have a lot of interesting things all over the world. You have supply chains that broke down because of the illness and also because of the fact — the quantity. But we’re getting it ordered. We’re getting it done. And the — if you just have to — look, some of you were at the call yesterday where I spoke with the governors — almost all of the governors — and every one of them was very impressed with what we’ve done. Go ahead. In the middle, please. I’d have to talk to him. I would have to talk to Secretary Scalia. You know, so far, we haven’t had to. It’s an amazing thing that happened. We’re getting calls from automobile companies. We’re getting calls from other companies, saying they have plant capacity, they want to make ventilators, they want to make other things. We are literally being besieged, in a beautiful way, by companies that want to do the work. They want to do the job. They want to help us. They want to help our country. So we haven’t had a problem with that at all. Well, when they call us, they let us know. If there’s a conflict, they will call us and we will drop our bid because we want them to go first because they’re point — they’re point of sale. So we’ve had four or five instances where literally that was happening because you know we’re both trying to get stock. And if we’re going against, they will call us — the smart ones, frankly, will call us, and we will immediately — we want them to buy it because it gets to them quicker if they buy it. Okay? We’re really — They know that. And it’s happening more and more, where they’re calling and they’re saying we’re bidding against each other. They want to get it. They’ll get it much quicker that way. Go ahead, please. Well, it’s going very well, I tell you what. We inherited an obsolete deal and we’ve made a good thing out of it. I haven’t heard that question in a while, but go ahead. Do you want to say about the tests? Tell them how that’s working. When we need something — when we need something — because of the act, when we need something, we order something. And, as you know, two days ago, I invoked the act, which was a big step. I’m not sure that it had been done before, certainly not very much. And when we need something, we will use the act. What has happened is, before we even go out, many, many companies — great companies — companies in a totally different business are willing to do things and make things. Because that’s what they do; they make product. They’re willing to make product for us — medical product — that we need very badly for the states that the states can’t get — they haven’t been able to get. And, you know, most of the states, in no way did they do anything wrong. They were stocked up. They were all equipped. Unfortunately, they’ve never had a thing like this. So they need help from the federal government. Go ahead. I have. I have. Yes. I have. A lot. A lot. And they’re making a lot of ventilators and they’re making a lot of masks. Go ahead, please. Go ahead. Please. I can’t say they are, but they will be very shortly because we’re working with one in particular — the ones to make ventilators. They called us yesterday and they’re already — we’re working on a transaction. They’re going to make ventilators. They say they’ve done it before, which surprised me. But they can do it very easily. Go ahead. Carnival. Yeah. No, not donate. That’s not the word — “donate.” He didn’t — he’s not giving them. He’s going to let you use them. I spoke with Micky Arison, who is the President — chairman, CEO, and owner. I think he’s got every title you can have. He said to me that he was willing to, if we need ships — if we need ships for helping people, that Carnival would be absolutely willing to help us in Los Angeles, in New York, wherever they may be — in Miami, where they’re very big. If we needed something, they would be willing to. So far, we haven’t needed to. And we’re bringing the big hospital ships up in California. We haven’t. We’re working with the Governor of California, as you know — with Gavin — and we haven’t made a determination. We’re also talking — the folks would like it in Seattle. So we’re discussing where it can be most useful. We’ve spoken with Governor Cuomo and we’re bringing the big hospital ship up in two weeks, and we’re going to have it in New York Harbor or someplace in New York Harbor. No, I have taken them up. I said, “If we need it, I’ll let you know.” That’s called taking them up. Right now, we don’t need it. Well, I can tell you they’re very clean and also those surfaces, the germ, as you know, the virus disappears over a period of time. And these ships are very clean. They’ve been kept very clean. They’ve been gone over. But the virus, as you know, if it is on a surface for a certain — they have, actually, charts. Different kinds of surfaces, it disappears over a period of time. I mean, I — what are you trying to get at? Go ahead. It disappears. The virus disappears when it’s on surface after a certain number of days or, in some cases, hours, depending on the surface it’s on. Go ahead. Please. I will be, but first I want to get the approval from the company because I don’t want to be doing that. I assume they’d like it, but I’ll let you know. We have one company that has openly stated, and it is General Motors. It’s one of the companies, But I didn’t speak to them about announcing it, but I’ll announce it. I’m sure they wouldn’t be — but we have others also. Well, you’re hearing very positive things about testing. And just so you understand, we don’t want every American to go out and get a test. Three hundred and fifty million people — we don’t want that. We want people that are sys- — that have a problem, that have a problem with — they’re sneezing, they’re sniffling, they don’t feel good, they have a temperature. There are a lot of different things. You know them — you know them better than I do. So, ready? We don’t need that. But what we are having is we’re having — these private labs have come and they’ve been really fantastic. And we also have a great system for the future. Because, as I said, we inherited — “we,” meaning this administration — an obsolete, broken system that wasn’t meant for anything like this. Now we have a system that you can see because — look, we’re well into this and nobody is even talking about it, except for you — — which doesn’t surprise me. Which doesn’t surprise me. Yeah. Well, okay — Yeah. Well, okay. I’m not — I’m not hearing it. But we don’t want everybody to go out and get a test because there is no reason for it. Yeah. We’ll do one more after this. But I do think — and that’s after listening to Tony and everybody else that is an expert, I do think it’s important that not everybody be tested. If you feel great and if you have no symptoms whatsoever, it’s a — it’s just not a good thing to be doing. All right. Steve, please. Do you want to finish that, Mike? Go ahead. You might want to respond to that. Just so you know — just for the probably hundredth time: I, this administration, inherited an obsolete, broken, old system that wasn’t meant for this. We discarded that system. And we now have a new system that can do millions of people, as you need them. But we had to get rid of a broken, old system that didn’t work. It worked only in a very limited basis. And we’re very proud of what we’ve done. It’s incredible what we’ve done. And this system will now serve for the future — for future problems. Hopefully, you don’t have a problem like this, but something will come up. We have now a great system and it’s almost fully in gear, but it’s able to test millions of people. But we inherited a broken, old — frankly, a terrible system. We fixed it and we’ve done a great job. And we haven’t been given the credit that we deserve — that, I can tell you. But the one that really deserves the credit are the American people because they are doing things that nobody thought they would do. What they’re doing is incredible. And we’re making a lot of progress. And we’ll see you folks tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. It is great having FEMA involved. We’ve had tremendous success working together, and we appreciate all of the people here. And it’s an honor to be with all of you. You’re doing a fantastic job, by the way. And so now we’re, as of yesterday when we — when we gave the order, FEMA is totally involved, in addition to everybody else. And a lot of progress is being made, so I look forward to speaking to the governors. And from what I understand, we have pretty close to 50 of the governors and some territories on, and we have a lot of — just about everybody showed up, so that’s very nice. And we will put them on the screen as soon as you want. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mike, do you want to say something? I agree with that 100 percent. Thank you very much. And for the media, I guess perhaps you’re going to stand aside. We’re going to have the screen right behind you. And we’ll start opening this up to the governors, if that’s okay. Please. Yeah, go ahead. Okay, who is next speaking? Hi. Hi, Brian. I can hear you fine. Thank you, Brian. I like that idea, Brian. That’s done. I like it. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Very good. And thank you very much. And we will consider everything you’ve said. Thank you very much. Okay. Who’s next? Next governor, please? You’re looking well, Phil. You’re looking well. Thank you. Good. Good. Yep. And so, Phil, try — try what you can. Do the best you can to get what you can actually get. And we’re also having a lot of things produced that, frankly, nobody has ever seen anything like this before. But do the best you can. And on block grants, we’re going to consider that very strongly. Thank you, Phil. Hello, John Bel. Yeah. What is your second request? John Bel, what’s your second request, please? The second request. Right. Okay. We’re going to look at that, and I’m going to try and get you immediate approval on the hospital. I know about the hospital request. And so we’re going to speak to the VA. We’re going to see if we can get immediate — at least as a switch, but we’ll get that approved for you one way or the other. All right? Okay. Thanks a lot, John Bel. Thank you. I might ask very briefly, while we’re waiting for the next governor to come on, Mike, if you could say a few words. And also, Deborah, if you could say a few words, it would be great. And then we have another governor teed up. Please. Yeah, please. Go ahead. And we’ll hear then from the governors. Thank you, Mike. Deborah. All right, thank you very much. Mike, go ahead. And thank you very much, Mike. And I want to get back to the governors. I do want to say — to me, something so big — the FDA has approved compassionate use for a significant number of patients. We have a drug called chloroquine. A derivation would be hydroxychloroquine, which I hear even better about. It’s a common malaria drug. It’s been available, so therefore the safety level we understand very well. It’s been relatively safe. And it showed very encouraging early results. Really encouraging. If we — if this works as well as — hopefully it might. The FDA, which would have taken normally much longer to do under our great Secretary — he’s been fantas- — the head of the FDA has been — Dr. Hahn — Dr. Stephen Hahn — he has been fantastic. He got it approved very quickly. I won’t even tell you how quickly, but let’s put it this way: It’s approved. And we’re encouraging you to take a look at it. We have ordered a lot of it, and you can too. It’s by prescription. It’s a very powerful drug for malaria and also for various forms of very serious arthritis. But we think it has a very serious — a very good impact on what we’re talking about with respect to the virus. So you’ll take a look at that. Then you can coordinate with us. But I think, to me, that’s a game changer. You know about — the vaccines are fine, but that will be a while before you can test them because you have to leave quite a bit of period. We are making tremendous progress on a vaccine, but it still takes a long while to test it. We’re also studying this and other promising therapies, which is a therapy produced by Gilead, and that would be rems- — it’s called remdesivir. Remdesivir. And it shows great promise. And Regeneron was — is a company which is also working very hard on a drug, and it’s also — they’re doing very well. They are the ones that came up with a very successful solution to Ebola. And they’ve been a fantastic company. So we have some great things, but the — the ones that I mentioned are very good, but especially, I think if you look at the first mention — could be a absolute total game changer. And with that, I think we’ll go back to the — this is by prescription, but states can issue it. And we have it approved by the FDA. And I think it’s going to be something that will be very interesting to see. We’re going to know very quickly. But we’ve had some very good tests, and it’s been successful. So let’s take a look. To me, that’s probably the most important thing that anybody can say, if it works. But we have it approved for safety. And I want to thank the FDA for acting so quickly. It was incredible how quickly. This was something that would have taken years, and they got it done almost immediately — based on the past history of the drug. Thank you very much. Who is the next governor, please? Hi, Pete. Thank you. Okay. No, I agree. Good. That’s great. We’ll get right back to you on that, Pete. Thank you very much. Great job you’re doing. Thank you. Okay, who’s next? Governor? Who’s our next governor? Next. Hi. Right. Yeah. All right, Charlie. Thank you very much. Well, we do like you going out and seeing what you can get, if you can get it faster. And price is always a component of that also. And maybe that’s why you lost to the feds. I’ll tell you, that’s probably why. But I’m going to — I’m going to ask Mike to discuss that because we have some, I think, brand-new information. Please, Mike. And I will say this, Charlie, and for everybody: The country has really stepped up like I don’t think we’ve seen it in many, many — probably decades. It’s incredible the way they’ve stepped up. So we hope we can get rid of this thing quickly. Okay. Next — thank you, Charlie. Next governor, please. Next governor. Thank you, Larry. Thank you. Well, thank you, Larry. And I think — — the FEMA is going to go great. We’ve had so much — we’ve done so much work with FEMA. Unfortunately, recently, on a big tornado in Tennessee — you know that — and then, last year, on a big tornado in Alabama, and plenty of hurricanes. And we work also in California, largely in California, and the big forest fires. And FEMA does a job like no — like no other. And so I think they’ll be a tremendous — I know they’re going to be a tremendous help. On the two points that are relevant, I’d like you to call Steve Mnuchin, and I’ll speak to him later. Give him a little detail in those two points, please, so that while we’re doing this with the Senate — we’re getting a lot of cooperation from Democrats and Republicans. Maybe you can make those two points a little bit with Steve because — — a few people do agree with that. Okay? Thank you. Thank you very much, Larry. Okay next? Next governor, please. Yes, please. Pete? Thank you very much, Pete. And in addition to FEMA, we have the very, very talented man — who I’ve dealt with a lot on building different things throughout the country — the general that you — I think, for the most part, you know: General Semonite. And that’s the Army Corps of Engineers. And very much involved in a couple of locations I know very specifically. And he’s definitely very busy, but he’s a good builder, and that’s what you need is a good builder. So thank you very much, General, for being here. Okay. Next governor, please. Hi, Gina. Hi. Go ahead, Gina. Yes. Yes. That’s okay. That’s good. That’s great. Okay. Yeah. Good. Thank you. Thank you, Gina, very much. Appreciate it very much. And we’ll look into all of those points very strongly. Thank you. Gary, please. Go ahead. Good. I think you’re right a hundred percent. And I think we’re going to have a — we’re going to be a rocket ship as soon as this thing gets solved, as soon as we beat the invisible enemy. It’s an invisible enemy, and it’s been vicious. It’s in over 140 countries, if you can believe that. A hundred and forty countries. So it moves fast; it’s very contagious. But we’ve really stepped up, and a lot of good things are going to happen. And one of the reasons we’re doing the packages that you’re hearing about, reading about, and know about is the fact that we think it’s going to come back really fast. I think we’re poised to come back very, very fast. But we have to get rid of this, and we will get rid of the virus. And hopefully it will be sooner — far sooner rather than later. Thank you very much, Gary. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next governor, please. Hi, Gretchen. Good. Well, thank you very much. You’re right a hundred percent. We’re watching the auto industry very much. We’re going to be helping them out, at least a little bit. And they’ve sort of requested some help. And it wasn’t their fault what happened. So we’ll be taking care of the auto industry. And I appreciate very much your comments. Thank you. All right. Next governor, please. Okay. The states have done a lot of that themselves, working in conjunction with us. A lot of the drive-through has been done by states. But, Admiral, maybe you can answer that question, please. Right. All right. Thank you, General. All right. General, that shouldn’t be a problem. Would you please answer that? Because everything should be in very good shape. Would you answer that, please? In fact, last night, we bought 250,000 swabs and they got distributed all over to — all over the country to the various states and the states that needed them the most. So, J.B., any problem, call me up. But there should be no problem with that at all. Thanks a lot, Thanks, J.B. Next governor, please. Good. Good. Do you want to answer that? All right. We hear it. We got you, Kristi. Very good. Alex, please — — could you respond to her? That will never happen to you and it will never happen to your state. Okay, go ahead, please. There is tremendous supply. Deb, please. Go ahead. Thank you, Kristi. Thank you, very much. Next governor, please. Thank you, Kristi. Next governor, please. Go ahead. Go ahead. I think we got cut off. Next governor, please. Yeah. Thank you, Mike. We’ll take care of that immediately. Very quickly. All right? Thank you. Next, please. Yes. Hi. Good. Go ahead. I think that’s good. I think it’s a good idea. Pete, we’ll do it through FEMA. You’ll coordinate that? So Pete is here. We’ll do it through FEMA. That’s the way we want to do it. Okay? What’s next? Good. Thank you very much. We’ll get it done. Thank you very much. All right? We have four more governors. Thanks. Let’s go. Who’s next? Thank you very much. Okay? Next, please. Thank you, Doug, very much. Thank you. Okay, next please. Right Right. Yeah. I think it’s a great idea. Thank you very much. I think — I think it’s something we’ll be thinking about. And thank you, Governor. Next, please. Right. And we can do that too. That’s great. We can do that easily. Thank you. Thank you, Brad. Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. It’s been an honor to be with you. We’ll do this probably often until this gets solved. Feel free to call me, the Vice President, anybody at the table, anybody in the room — except for the media. Don’t call the media. And we will see you at the next one. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. I think this is going to be a very important conference and I’ll get to that toward the middle, but I have a few things to report. And I want to thank you all for being here. And I have to say, I think with social distancing that the media has been much nicer. I don’t know what it is — all these empty — these in-between chairs. We probably shouldn’t have anybody sitting behind you either. You know, you should probably go back. But I love it. It’s so much nicer. But I shouldn’t say that because you’ll get me now. Thank you all for being here. And we continue our relentless effort to defeat the Chinese virus. Before I begin, I want to start by announcing that today we are bringing home another American citizen. It was a big thing. Very big. Amer Fakhoury is on his way back to the United States after being imprisoned in Lebanon since September of 2019. He’s battling late-stage cancer. Mr. Fakhoury will now be able to receive the much-needed care and treatment in the United States. We’ve been working very hard to get him freed and he’s finally able to have his entire family at his side. So I’m very grateful to the Lebanese government. They worked with us. And we are very proud of his family. They stood by him so strongly, and they are thrilled. The United States has no higher priority than the safety and wellbeing of our citizens. We’ve gotten a tremendous number of hostages out, as you know. I think we’re 42-and-0. And Robert O’Brien, as you know, was our chief negotiator for a large part of it. In fact, did so well that now we have him in a different position. So I want to thank and congratulate Robert and his team and I want to let everyone know that recovering Americans held captive and imprisoned abroad continues to be a top priority for my administration. We have one young gentleman, Austin Tice, and we’re working very hard with Syria to get him out. We hope the Syrian government will do that. We are counting on them to do that. We’ve written a letter just recently, but he’s been there for a long time and was captured long ago. Austin Tice. His mother is probably watching and she’s a great lady. And we’re doing the best we can. So, Syria, please work with us. And we would appreciate you letting him out. If you think about what we’ve done, we’ve gotten rid of the ISIS caliphate in Syria. We’ve done a lot for Syria. We have to see if they’re going to do this. So, it would be very much appreciated if they would let Austin Tice out immediately. As you know, my administration is working every day to protect American people and the American economy from the virus. Yesterday, I signed into law a critical support for American workers, families, and small businesses. It was a big thing. We’re providing sick leave and family medical leave to those affected by the virus and more help is on the way as we speak. Our entire team, headed by Secretary Mnuchin, is on the Hill. We’re working with Democrats and Republicans and there’s a lot of goodwill going on. This was something that happened that was, some people would say, an act of God. I don’t view it as an act of God; I would view it as is something that just surprised the whole world. And if people would have known about it, it could have stopped — been stopped in place. It could have been stopped right where it came from — China — if we would have known about it, if they would have known about it. But now the whole world, almost, is inflicted with this horrible — with this horrible virus and it’s too bad. It’s too bad because we never had an economy as good as the economy we had just a few weeks ago. But we’ll be back and I actually think we’ll be back stronger than ever before because we learned a lot during this period of time. I also just invoked the Defense Production Act to help facilitate distribution of essential supplies if necessary. We’re working with Congress to provide major additional relief to the workers, small businesses, and the hardest-hit industries. We want to make sure that everybody is able to continue on so that when we recover, all of these companies and these great businesses — both very, very small and very, very large — are not going to be broken up and you’d have to put them back together. That would take a long time. Because we really believe in — I believe in the V curve. I believe it’s going to go. When this is — when this is defeated — this hidden scourge is defeated — I think we’re going to go up very rapidly — our economy — and get back to where it was and beyond. Today, I want to share with you exciting progress that the FDA is making with the private sector as we slash red tape like nobody has ever done it before. Somebody was on yesterday, on one of the networks, and said that there’s never been a President even close that’s been able to do what I’ve done in slashing all of the red tape and everything to get very important things to the market — medical. So we slashed red tape to develop vaccines and therapies as fast as it can possibly be done — long before anybody else was even thinking about doing this. And, as you know, earlier this week, we began the first clinical trial of a vaccine candidate for the virus, and that was launched in record time. It was just a few weeks. And that would have taken years to do, not so long ago. As we race to develop a vaccine, we’re also pursuing antiviral therapies. And that’s what, really, we’re going to be talking to you about today. That’s the purpose of being up here today. And, to me, that’s even more important. The vaccine, by its nature, you have to have long tests because you have to make sure what goes into somebody’s body is not going to do destruction, do bad things. So you need long tests. And they’re doing great with the vaccines, but it’s still a long process. But the therapies are something we can move on much faster, potentially, and the treatments that will be able to reduce the severity or duration of the symptoms — to make people better. Essentially, we’re looking at things to make people better or, at the very earliest stages, they wouldn’t even know they had it. And that’s where I believe it’s going to work even the best. The FDA Commissioner — Stephen Hahn, who is with us — he’s fantastic. And he has been working 24 hours a day. He’s been — he’s worked like, probably as hard or harder than anybody in this — in the group, other than maybe Mike Pence or me. And what the FDA is doing is incredible. They’ve done things in times that were not even thinkable and I’ve directed the FDA to eliminate outdated rules and bureaucracy so this work can proceed rapidly, quickly, and, I mean, fast. And we have to remove every barrier. There are a lot of barriers that were unnecessary. And they’ve done that to get the rapid deployment of safe, effective treatments. And we think we have some good answers. We’ll find out very, very soon. Clinical trials are already underway for many new therapies and we’re working on scaling these to allow many more Americans to access different drugs that have shown really good promise. We’ve had some un- — really good promise. We will do so in a way that lets us continue to collect good data, to know which medicines are safe and which medicines are working the best. We have a couple that we’re — we’re in really good shape on. And that’s for immediate delivery — immediate — like as fast as we can get it. The FDA has also approved compassionate use for a significant number of patients. You know what that means. We’re also reviewing drugs that are approved abroad or drugs approved here for other uses. And, you know, one of the things that I’m most proud of that I got was Right to Try. That’s where somebody who’s ill, somebody who’s very sick — terminally ill, usually. In past administrations — we signed this a year and a half ago — you wouldn’t be able to even think about getting any of the drugs that may be showing great promise. Now — and they’ve been trying for many decades to get this approved and it sounds simple, but it’s not because there’s liability involved and lots of other things. And I was able to get it approved, working with Congress. Right to Try. This is beyond Right to Try. What we’re talking about today is beyond Right to Try. Right to Try has been, by the way, a tremendous success. People are living now that had no chance of living, where we take treatments that would — things that — that would have to go through years of a process. And if somebody was terminally ill — and I would say, “Why wouldn’t they be able to try this?” They’d go to Asia, they’d go to Europe, they’d go all over the world to try and find something. Or some people, if they had no money, would go home to die. They’d go home to die; they had no hope. Right to Try has been an incredible success. But this is beyond Right to Try. If treatments known to be safe in Europe, Japan, or other nations are effective against the virus, we’ll use that information to protect the health and safety of American people. Nothing will stand in our way as we pursue any avenue to find what best works against this horrible virus. Now, a drug called chloroquine — and some people would add to it “hydroxy-.” Hydroxychloroquine. So chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine. Now, this is a common malaria drug. It is also a drug used for strong arthritis. If somebody has pretty serious arthritis, also uses this in a somewhat different form. But it is known as a malaria drug, and it’s been around for a long time and it’s very powerful. But the nice part is, it’s been around for a long time, so we know that if it — if things don’t go as planned, it’s not going to kill anybody. When you go with a brand-new drug, you don’t know that that’s going to happen. You have to see and you have to go — long test. But this has been used in different forms — very powerful drug — in different forms. And it’s shown very encouraging — very, very encouraging early results. And we’re going to be able to make that drug available almost immediately. And that’s where the FDA has been so great. They — they’ve gone through the approval process; it’s been approved. And they did it — they took it down from many, many months to immediate. So we’re going to be able to make that drug available by prescription or states. I spoke with Governor Cuomo about it at great length last night, and he wants to be right on — on the — he wants to be first on line. And so I think that’s a tremendous — there’s tremendous promise, based on the results and other tests. There’s tremendous promise. And normally the FDA would take a long time to approve something like that, and it’s — it was approved very, very quickly and it’s now approved, by prescription. Individual states will handle it. They can handle it. Doctors will handle it. And I think it’s going to be — I think it’s going to be great. Then we’re quickly studying this drug, and while we’re continuing to study it — but the studying is going to be also done in — as it’s given out to large groups of people, perhaps in New York and other places. We’ll study it there. There are promising therapies produced by Gilead, and that’s remdesivir. Remdesivir. And that’s a drug used for other purposes that’s been out and has had very good results for other purposes, but it seems to have a very good result, having to do with this virus. And that drug also has been approved or very close to approved, in that case, by the FDA. And I can’t tell you how much we appreciate what the FDA — these people are incredible patriots. And the job that Stephen Hahn is doing — Dr. Hahn, who is one of the most respected doctors in the country, by the way, where we took him. I said, “You sure you want to do this?” Now, we didn’t know that this was going to be in the playlist, what happened here, but he really has stepped up to the plate, wherever you are. Where is he? You really have. I’d shake his hand, but I’m not supposed to do that. I’d get in a lot of trouble if I did that. But he’s been fantastic. And I thank you, Doctor. He’s going to speak right after I’m finished. So, Regeneron, again, and — is some — is a company that’s done fantastically well, as I understand, with Ebola and some other things. Great company. And they’re looking at some very promising events also. So you have remdesivir and you have chloroquine and hydro- — hydroxychloroquine. So those are two that are out now, essentially approved for prescribed use. And I think it’s going to be very exciting. I think it could be a game changer and maybe not. And maybe not. But I think it could be, based on what I see, it could be a game changer. Very powerful. They’re very powerful. So I want every American to know that we’re doing everything we can. And these actions are important next steps. I mean, for the FDA to act the way they acted, with this kind of speed, is an incredible thing. Normally, they would say, “Well, we could have it by next year” or “We could have it by — in two years from now.” You understand. This is the way — normally, it’s like years and years and years. They had it immediately, based on the fact that it’s been used for other things — totally unrelated things. We believe these therapeutics and others under evaluation right now will be able to provide relief to many Americans. We really hope that’s going to be. This could be a tremendous breakthrough. Tremendous breakthrough. And we will work toward a much-needed vaccine in the future, as I said. And what we’re doing with the FDA is so exciting in so many other fields. So many things are happening. It’s a very exciting time for — for medicine. And we appreciate that the American public has pulled together. They’re really staying home. And I think there’s tremendous spirit in this country right now, a spirit like a lot of people have not seen. People have not seen anything like it for a long time. And that means Democrat, Republican. They’re pulling together. I hope everything is going good on the Hill. Maybe I shouldn’t say this until I check out what’s going on, because you never know. But — but I think there’s a great spirit where the Democrats and the Republicans and everybody else, they’re getting together and they’re trying to get things done. But most importantly, the American public has been incredible. We took the best economy we’ve ever had and we said “Stop. You can’t work. You have to stay home.” You know, there’s never been a case like this. Normally, you pay a lot of money to get things going. Here’s a case we’re paying a lot of money to stop things because we don’t want people to be together so that this virus doesn’t continue onward. So there’s never been anything like this in history. There’s never been a –nobody has ever seen anything like this. But we’re doing the right thing. We have to get rid — I mean, our big war is not a — it’s not a financial war. It’s a war — it’s a medical war. And we have to win this war. It’s very important. With that, I’d like to just introduce Dr. Stephen Hahn. And he — again, I’d like to send back with Stephen our thanks to all of the people working in the FDA who are fantastic, talented people. We appreciate it very much, everything you’ve done, especially the speed that you got these two elements, these two very important drugs passed. Thank you very much. Thank you, Stephen. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you very much. Mike? Talk about the masks, maybe. Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Doctor, please. Thank you, Doctor, very much. Jerome? Please. Thank you, Jerome. Thank you. Yeah, please. Go ahead, Jon. Well, we don’t want that. In fact, some companies, as you know, did stock buybacks, and I was never happy with that. It’s very hard to tell them not to, but I would tell them not to. I would say I don’t like it for that reason. Some did, and it turned out that they could have waited a long time. It would have been much better off if they didn’t. I’m mind making — I mean, you know, it takes many, many people, in this case, to tango. But as far as I’m concerned, that — conditions like that would be okay with me. John? No, because we hope we’re not going to need that. First of all, governors are supposed to be doing a lot of this work, and they are doing a lot of this work. The federal government is not supposed to be out there buying vast amounts of items and then shipping. You know, we’re not a shipping clerk. The governors are supposed to be — as with testing, the governors are supposed — are supposed to be doing it. We’ll help out, and we’ll help out wherever we can. And we can buy in volume and, in some cases, great volume — with the masks, as an example, which were really a problem. We have helped out, and there are right now millions of masks being made. But this is really for the local governments, governors, and people within the state, depending on the way they divided it up. And they’ll do that, and they’re doing a very good job of it. Where you have a problem with ventilators, we’re working very hard trying to find — nobody in their wildest dreams would have ever thought that we’d need tens of thousands of ventilators. This is something that’s very unique to this, to what happened. Well, if we were desperately in need of something — and we, frankly, will know about that very shortly. We want to be ahead of — we don’t want to do it as it happens but before it happens. We’re going to know a lot over the next two or three days. We’ll know a lot. No, I’m not. But we’re trying to find that out. This has been going on for years. Many years, they’ve been trying to find Austin Tice. He was in Syria, as you know. His mother is an incredible woman. And I’m doing it for him, but I’m doing it for his mother. His mother is an incredible woman who is desperate to find her son. And I’m not confirming alive, but if — if he is alive, we would like very much to get him back quickly. Well, I haven’t seen that, but I will let Mike answer that question. Vice President? So how many masks are being made? And when will they be ready, or at least we start getting them ready? Some of that had to do with the liability to the company. They had a big problem with liability. And much of it had to do with the liability to the company. We’re looking at that issue directly with them, and that’s a separate issue. But we’re looking at that issue very directly. We’re looking at it very directly. Well, we’re going to do our best on it. But we’re working with Democrats and Republicans on that. We’re looking at that very specifically, Yeah, I hope very soon. We’ll see. This is uncharted territory, as you know. We think we have ideas. It doesn’t help to say what the idea is. I would hope very soon. We’re — we’ve pulled together as a nation. People are, for the most part, doing what they’re supposed to be doing. The social distancing is very interesting. A whole new term that’s become a hot — it’s become somewhat of a hot term. But people are listening and they’re — and they’re really doing a great job. This country is an amazing country. I think you’re up to 141 different countries right now. So it’s very uncharted territory. Could have — could have been stopped — could have been stopped pretty easily if we had known — if everybody had known about it a number of months before people started reading about it. Excuse me. Excuse me. Before we started reading about it. We could have — it could have been stopped in its tracks. Unfortunately, they didn’t decide to make it public. But the whole world is suffering because of it. We were very prepared. The only thing we weren’t prepared for was the media. The media has not treated it fairly. I’ll tell you how prepared I was: I called for a ban from people coming in from China long before anybody thought it was — in fact, it was your network — I believe they called me a racist because I did that. It was — many of the people in the room, they called me racist and other words because I did that, because I went so early. So when you say we weren’t prepared, had I let these tens of thousands of people come in from China a day, we would have had something right now that would have been — you wouldn’t have even recognized it compared to where we are. How many people have passed away? How many people have died as of this moment? You could multiply that by a factor of many, many, many. So when you say that I wasn’t prepared, I was the first one to do the ban. Now other countries are following what I did. But the media doesn’t acknowledge that. They know it’s true — They know it’s true, but they don’t want to write about it. Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. Governors are supposed to get it. The states are supposed to get it. But we’re helping the states. Well — look, for years, they bought them, and now, all of a sudden, they’re coming to the federal government. We are working with the states. We’re working with the governors. We’re working with everybody. The relationships are great. One of the things that happened this morning: I spoke with Micky Arison of Carnival Cruise Lines, and he’s going to make ships available. So in addition to the big medical ships that you have coming, if we should need ships with lots of rooms, they’ll be docked at New York and Los Angeles and San Francisco — different places. So I want to thank Micky Arison; that’s Carnival Cruise Lines. I’ve done it. I’ve done it. Yeah, if we find that we need something, that we will do that. And you don’t know what we’ve done. You don’t know whether or not we’ve ordered. You don’t know if we’ve invoked it. You don’t know what’s been ordered, what’s not been ordered. I can only tell you — I can only tell you that, as an example, masks — nobody ever heard of the number of masks that’s been ordered. They’re being made now, and many are available now. But people, I think, in the media, probably don’t know that. Go ahead. Behind. Well, we don’t want to pick winners and losers. We want everybody to benefit. We want, I think more than anything else, the workers to benefit. And sometimes for the worker to benefit, you have to go through the company because they have thousands of workers. And if the company goes out of business — no fault of their own — those workers aren’t going to be able to receive a check. So we’re — look, our ultimate goal are the people. Our ultimate goal are the great people of this country. And we will have things worked out, I think, that are going to be very well. It’s a very complex formula; you understand that. It’s very complex. But it’s working out. I think it’s going to be very well. I think we’re going to have pretty uniform support for it. Please. We’re speaking with the State Department later. I can’t say right now because I haven’t had the meeting yet. Go ahead. Yeah. Please. Jeff. I can only tell you on the 14th day. And we’ll have to see. We’ll have indications later on. I think they actually are doing a lot. I mean, they — I know New York is working very diligently, been very strong. I assume San Francisco is one of the areas, and Los Angeles, and the State of Washington, obviously; that’s one that has to be up there. They’re all working very hard to quarantine or where it’s just about the equivalent of quarantine. Okay? We are. And we’re doing — we’re using the medical term of “telemedicine,” and it’s been incredibly busy and, really, you know, where people don’t have to — I mean, some people can’t do it anyway. They can’t get up; they can’t see a doctor. But we’re using this, and it’s been telehealth — different names. And I will tell you that it’s been really successful, and it’s helped a lot of people out, where they don’t have to and they can’t. And even from a safety reason, if they are positive, they are — if they are feeling poorly, they can’t do it, or we don’t want them transmitting anything to anybody else. Well, it would have been much better if we had known about this a number of months earlier. It could have been contained to that one area in China where it started. And certainly, the world is paying a big price for what they did and the world is paying a very big price for not — for not letting them come out. Everybody knows that. We all know that. As far as — — as far as believing what they’re putting out now, I hope it’s true. Who knows? But I hope it’s true. I really do. Big difference. I don’t want to comment on that right now. Yeah. No. Worst-case scenario, you would have terrible job numbers. If we can get this thing wrapped up and finished earlier, things will go very nicely. And one of the things they’re working — as you know, one of the elements that is being worked on very much so on the Hill is to keep the jobs going so that when we do get rid of the virus, we’re going to be able to just really, I think, go like a rocket. I think the economy is going to be fantastic. No, when he said that, he was using that as the ultimate bad outcome. I don’t think anybody believes that’s going to happen. Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead. You. I know all of them. And I don’t know if they’re sitting like you people are sitting — you’re actually sitting too close. You should — really, we should probably get rid of about another 75, 80 percent of you. I’ll just have two or three that I like in this room. I think that’s a great way of doing it. We just figured a new way of doing it. But you’re actually much too close. You know, you two, you should leave immediately. But — but, look — look, I know all of them. They tested positive. Hopefully, they’re all going to get better. And it’s one of those things. It’s Congress, you know? It’s one of those things. Well, I don’t think they’re going to the Hill. I mean, I know some, where they tested positive, they’re in quarantine. And I know Lindsey and many others are — they didn’t test, but until they got the result, they put themselves in quarantine. A number of people in Congress right now are in quarantine; they don’t know the results. When they get the result, they’ll either stay there and get better — because people get better. I mean, most people are getting better. Most, by far — the people — you get better. Doesn’t mean it’s not a tough one; it is a tough one. But no, when they — many people in Congress have felt not perfect or they met somebody that wasn’t perfect and turned out to be positive, and they’ve put themselves in quarantine. No, I think they’ve — I think Congress has behaved unbelievably well in that regard. We’ll know about that later on. We’ll see what happens. It depends how long — so much depends on what’s going on in this room, in terms of the medical. If can stop it in its tracks, the virus, it’s plenty. If we can’t, we’ll have to go back and talk. I do. I really do. I will — I’m not going to say, but I think so. Look, people are coming — people are coming in for money. In some cases, no fault of their own. But in some cases, where they did certain things over the course of the years, including buying back stock — you know, they bought back stock and they paid a higher price for it, as it turned out. But maybe I view that as a little bit differently than somebody that didn’t and somebody that built plants all over the United States, of which there were plenty of them too. We will be helping the airline industry. We will be helping the cruise ship industry. We probably will be helping the hotel industry. We’ll probably be — where — where jobs are created, you don’t want to lose industries like this. These are incredible industries. You can’t lose them. So we’ll focus on many industries. And I have to say — I can’t state it strongly enough: We will be helping small businesses. That’s where it’s complicated, because there’s a lot of small — you know, that’s the engine of the — of the country. We will be helping small businesses. No. There could be. We’re looking at a couple of things that I could do. Hopefully won’t need it, but we can do what — There’s a lot of executive power. If we don’t have to use it, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. Yeah. Please. Thanks for telling us. We appreciate it. Go ahead. What’s the rest of your question? We know that. Everybody in the room knows that. We’ll be able to tell you that very — I think in the near future. We’ll see where we’re going. You’re going to see numbers. You’ve seen the graphs. You’re going to see numbers and we’ll be able to let you know. I will say that the American public has been incredible, for the most part — not in all cases, but for the most part. So you’ll be able to see what’s happening over the next — as we say, we had a 15-day period. You’ll be able to tell a lot in a week or so — not everything, but we’ll be able to see over a period of time. And I have to say, if chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine works — or any of the other things that they’re looking at that are not quite as far out — but if they work, your numbers are going to come down very rapidly. So we’ll see what happens. But there’s a real chance that they might — they might work. Go ahead, please. In the back. Well, he’s a friend of mine, number one. And number two, we had dinner the other night and everybody said he was positive, and he wasn’t positive. He tested negative. So that was — I was quite happy when I heard that. But I have no message for him other than he’s doing a good job in Brazil. He’s doing a good job in Brazil, and he’s very popular. I can’t tell you about that. I don’t know about that. I have not heard that. He’s doing a very good job. Brazil was very troubled before he got there. And he’s — the people love them and he’s popular. I think he’s a very good job. In Peru? Where? Where? Where? Yep, we know about it. We have groups. We have a group of young people in Peru and we’re working on taking care of that with the military. Yeah, we’re looking to take — no, not evacuation. We’re — We’re trying to get them out. And you know, they got caught. They were late with their flights. We gave them a period of time; they didn’t make it. But we’re looking to get them out with military — probably through the military. We have a group of young — young people — I think young men or young people — could be women also with them — from Alabama. The great State of Alabama. And they’re in Peru and we’re working on that right now, trying to get them out. It’s a large group. It’s about 300. We’ll — we’re going to work it out. Jeff. Yeah, we did discuss it. As you know, Prime Minister Abe was on the call and that’s a big decision for him. And we don’t know what his decision is, but we would live with his decision. It’s a tough situation. They’ve done an incredible job. Japan has done an incredible job on building the venues — getting them built. You know, you’ve seen so many Olympic venues that have been a disaster over the years, where they cost five times more than they were supposed to and they weren’t ready on time. Japan has been just the opposite. They built it beautifully. They built it for what it was supposed to be built for. But then he got hit with the same thing that the rest of the world got hit with unexpectedly. He has — he has told us that he has not made a decision as to what to do. Well, the one thing I will tell you is that from the standpoint — you always get a little bit torn because, you know, until we became the leading producer, I was always for the person driving the car and filling up the tank of gas. And you’d have gasoline and the prices were — if they were too high, I would always raise hell with OPEC. And I was always somebody that likes — you know, I never thought I’d see 22 and 24 and $28 a barrel, but that’s what we have. And, in one way, our consumer is very much helped. It’s like — it’s like a massive tax increase. That’s bigger than any tax increase — decrease that you could give. You know, we can give all these big tax cuts, but they’re paying so little for gasoline. But, on the other hand, it hurts a great industry and a very powerful industry. So, I spoke with numerous people that have a lot to do with it and we have a lot of power over the situation. And we’re trying to find some kind of a medium ground. You know, it’s very devastating to Russia, because when you look — I mean, their whole economy is based on that. And they have — we have the lowest oil prices in decades. So it’s very devastating to Russia. I would say it’s very bad for Saudi Arabia, but they were in a fight. They were in a fight on price. They were in a fight on output. And at the — at the appropriate time, I’ll get involved. Yeah. Well, Micky called up, and he said, “If you need them…” And we haven’t said yes. I’ll call Governor Cuomo. I’ll call Gavin from — Gavin Newsom, governor from California. I’ll call a few of the other governors. They’re going to bring it up today, because we’re meeting, through phone — through telephone — “telephonically,” as they say — in a little while at FEMA. I’m going to go to FEMA from here. Well, you could increase places to stay. Let’s say “places to stay.” If it works — I mean, you know, I don’t know, maybe people won’t want them. But he made the offer. It was a very generous offer. And he said that he has some ships that would be ideally suited for what we’re doing. And certainly, they have a lot of rooms. They’re big and they have a lot of rooms. So we appreciate it from Carnival. Go ahead. Not needing the tests? Well, no, you should only get — You should — I didn’t have any symptoms and I got a test. But I got a test because you people were driving everybody crazy. So that’s the only reason. I had no symptoms but I had a test. And my doctor told me, “Don’t get it. You don’t need it.” Everybody said, “You don’t need it.” But I had to do it because the press was going crazy. And then, after I got it, they said “You shouldn’t have gotten it. You had no symptoms.” You know, the whole thing. So, in other words, if you get it, it was no good. But that’s — I’m a unique case, unfortunately. But, no, people that don’t show symptoms and people that have doctors that say they shouldn’t get it — I would rely on that. Yeah, I would rely on that. OAN. Very good. Thank you very much. They treat me very nicely. Go ahead. No. No, I don’t think it’s racist. I don’t think it’s racist at all. It amazes me when I read the things that I read. It amazes me when I read the Wall Street Journal, which is always so negative. It amazes me when I read the New York Times. It’s not even — I don’t — I barely read it. You know, we don’t distribute it in the White House anymore, and the same thing with the Washington Post. Because, you see, I know the truth. And people out there in the world, they really don’t know the truth. They don’t know what it is. They use different slogans and different concepts for me almost every week, trying to catch something. Last week, it was all chaos. You see me. There’s no chaos. I have no chaos. I’m the one telling everybody to be calm. There’s no chaos at the White House. We have unbelievable professionals. It’s really — I mean, I think I came up with the term — I hope I came up with the term — but it is fake news. It’s more than fake news; it’s corrupt news. They write stories without calling anybody. They write a story — today, I had a couple of stories where they — they never call me ever, that I know of. At least nobody tells me. They’ll write a story about me without even asking my opinion on something. It’s totally fake. I’ve never seen — I mean, there is a story in the Wall Street Journal today about — you know, about how we’ve done. We’ve done a phenomenal job on this. The governors are even — even Gavin Newsom, who you know I’m usually fighting with over the fires and — “I think you should do a different kind of a job at the — in the forests,” and lots of things. We argue a lot. But Gavin Newsom has been very, very generous — generous. Andrew Cuomo has been, really, very generous. I mean, they’re saying we’re doing a great job, and everybody saying. But then you read this phony story in the Wall Street Journal or — the Washington Post is going wild lately. I don’t know what happened to them. I guess, something happened like we don’t call them back or whatever. But the Washington Post — these are very dishonest media sources. They’re very dishonest. And you know what? Someday, hopefully in five years, I won’t be here and that’ll be fine. I will have done, I think, a great job, because I don’t think anyone has done as much in three and a half years as I’ve done, I don’t think — and the administration. This administration has done a great job. But the press is very dishonest. Well, I think they do. I mean — I mean, they are siding with — they are siding with China. They are doing things that they shouldn’t be doing. They’re siding with many others, China’s the least of it. So why — why they’re doing this, you’ll have to ask them. But if we had an honest media in this country, our country would be an even greater place. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. We are very excited about — we are very excited about — you know, specifically, what we talked about with the chloroquine. I think the — I think it could be something really incredible. It could totally depress the times that we had mentioned. Wait. Excuse me. Excuse me. It could totally depress any time that we’re talking about, if it works. There are a lot of reasons that I have to believe — again, Dr. Hahn is the expert, but a lot of reasons that I would have to think that it could have a very positive effect or a positive effect. Maybe not very, but maybe — maybe positive. I think it’s, to me, very, very exciting. And the beauty is — I think I can say this, Steve — the beauty is that these drugs have been out there. So the really danger part of the drugs — especially chloroquine — it’s been out there for years. So we know it’s something that can be taken safely. So it’s very important. Go ahead. Go ahead. And they are. And they are. We’re going to have other times to meet. We’ll be meeting, hopefully, not for very long. I mean, I would like to see this get cleared up, and we think we’ve — to me, this was a very important conference because I really think there’s great potential here. And a lot of people are going to be trying it soon — like, literally, very soon. Literally, in a matter of days, if not sooner, in some cases. It’s already being experimented with, and there’s been some very good results. We’ll see what happens. But if — if we can be even partially right — maybe we’ll be fully right — but even partially right on it, this whole subject becomes a much more pleasant subject. So, thank you all, and we’ll — we’re going over to FEMA now. So, I don’t know who’s going, but we’re going to FEMA. We’re going to be discussing with the governors and lots of other people. Now — well, I think that’s enough. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. And today I welcome the great nurses of our country to the White House and express our gratitude for those on the frontlines in our war against the global pandemic. And it’s been something, but we’re winning it. We will win. It’s a question of when, and I think it’s going — it’s going to go quickly. We hope it’s going to go quickly. I think we all agree. We’re glad to be joined by Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary Alex Azar, Administrator Seema Verma, Dr. Robert Redfield, and Dr. Deborah Birx. Thank you all very much for being here. Thank you very much. We’re using the full power of government in response to the Chinese virus. I declared a state of national emergency that will make up to $50 billion in disaster relief funds available, which we can use to assist hospitals — which, as you know, we need. I asked states to set up emergency operation centers and hospitals to activate emergency plans. And they’ve been fully notified. We’re urging hospitals to cancel all elective medical procedures. My emergency declaration allowed us to waive regulations to give nurses and doctors maximum flexibility to respond to the virus and to protect our frontline professionals that we’ve authorized through telehealth nationwide, which is really becoming big stuff — telehealth. It makes it a lot easier for patients, and it really has been working out amazingly well. We empowered states to authorize tests developed in their state. And we are working with the private sector to rapidly expand testing capacity. We have literally rebuilt that whole system. It was an obsolete system, and it’s been rebuilt. And a lot of good things are happening. We’ve ordered 500 million N-95 masks to drive private production. American manufacturers are repurposing factories. One major manufacturer has already doubled capacity, and we’ve asked construction companies to donate unused masks. And they have actually, quite a few of them — the construction companies. Who would think that? But they’re going to be donating unused masks. And the Defense Department is making millions of masks available for healthcare workers. And we’re asking every American to make major changes to reduce social interactions over the next two weeks. As we all know, we must make shared sacrifices, and that’s what we’re doing as a country. It’s been amazing to see the way the country has come together. There’s tremendous spirit. And even Republicans and Democrats are getting together — for the most part, but they’re getting together. So that’s a good thing to see. I thought maybe I’d go around the room and we’ll just say your name and who you’re representing. And it’s great to have you. Thank you very much. Please. Great. Thank you, Debbie. Thank you very much. Great. Wow. Thank you very much. Great. Thank you very much. That’s great. Thank you very much. I know who he is. Mike, do you have anything to say? Thank you, Mike. And just for the media: FEMA is fully engaged. They’re — they’re working with them very closely. They’re going around, they’re seeing many of the states. They’re engaged all over the country. But some areas have far greater problems than others. Some areas don’t have very much of a problem at all, as you know. But FEMA is very much engaged. They’re fully engaged as of about two hours ago. And tomorrow, we’re having a — what I think will be a very interesting news conference, and I think you know what that’s all about. So, we’ll see. The FDA will be — they’ve been working very, very hard, and I appreciate what they’re doing. And I think we have some very interesting things that will be brought up tomorrow at the news conference. It’ll be set up, I think, at around 11 o’clock or so, but we look forward to seeing you tomorrow. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. I would like to begin by announcing some important developments in our war against the Chinese virus. We’ll be invoking the Defense Production Act, just in case we need it. In other words, I think you all know what it is, and it can do a lot of good things if we need it. And we will — we will have it all completed, signing it in just a little while. Right after I’m finished with this conference, I’ll be signing it. It’s prepared to go. So we will be invoking the Defense Production Act. Last week, I signed an emergency declaration under the Stafford Act, which, as you know, we invoked previously and which activated FEMA’s National Response Coordination Center. FEMA now is fully engaged at the highest levels. Today, FEMA is activated in every region. We are at level one — level one being the highest level — which we will work with, and we’ve been working with FEMA. I’ve done a lot of work with FEMA. They’re incredible. It’s always been on hurricanes or tornadoes. They’re, right now, in Tennessee — a large group working in Tennessee. Have been incredible. That was a tragic event. Alabama, last year, also a tornado. And then, obviously the numerous hurricanes in different locations that were, in some cases, very devastating. And, in every case, FEMA came through. This is a very different kind of work for FEMA, but they will come through as they always do. We have tremendous people, tremendous talent in FEMA. We’re sending, upon request, the two hospital ships; they’re being prepared right now. They’re massive ships. They’re the big white ships with the red cross on the sides. One is called the Mercy and the other is called the Comfort. And they are in tip-top shape. They soon will be. They’re getting ready to come up to New York. I spoke with Governor Cuomo about it. He’s excited about it. And I also — we haven’t made the final determination as to where it’s going to go on the West Coast. The Comfort is located now in San Diego, and it’s going to be — we’ll be picking the destination fairly shortly. So those two ships are being prepared to go, and they can be launched over the next week or so, depending on need. Earlier this week, the first clinical trial of the vaccine candidate for the virus began in Washington State, as you probably know. The genetic sequence of the virus was first published in January. But thanks to the unprecedented partnership between the FDA, NIH, and the private sector, we’ve reached human trials for the vaccine just eight weeks later. That’s a record by many, many months. It used to take years to do this, and now we did it just in a very short while. That’s the fastest development in history of what we’re doing with regard to the vaccine. We’re making very, very big progress. Today I can announce further steps to expand testing capacity. We’re working with several groups to determine if the self-swab — a much easier process than the current process that’s not very nice to do, I can tell you, because I did it. But we have a current process that’s a little bit difficult. If you haven’t done — the groups are working on determining if a self-swab by an individual is as effective as the other. The other is very effective, very accurate. But we’re going to see if we can do a self-swab, which is — would be a lot more popular, I can tell you that. So — and that would be administered also by a health official, but it would be a lot easier to do. The — the fact is that the health professionals would — it would free — it would free up a lot. Let me just say, the self-swab is what it is: It’s a self-swab; you do it yourself. The other has to be issued by a health professional, and it’s something that is quite difficult. And we think it’s working out for the self-swab. And if it would test positive, the people would go and they would do what they have to do. But we think that’s probably working out. I’ve asked the FDA to cut through the red tape and reduce regulatory barriers. We are looking at some very exciting things. And I’m going to be holding a second news conference either today. We’re going to talk about the FDA. Some things are happening that are quite exciting. And we’re going to be doing that either later today or tomorrow — fairly early tomorrow. So we’ll see what happens. But the FDA, at my instruction, is — have been working very, very hard on a number of developments, and we’ll be discussing them with you later today or tomorrow. And this afternoon, I’ll be meeting with nurses on the frontlines of the battle against the virus. They are truly American heroes. They want to get it done. They’re incredible people. So we’re going to be meeting with nurses, and I actually look forward to that. They’re very brave. They’re taking a lot of risk. And they — they have done an incredible job and they never complain. Today, I’m also announcing that the Department of Housing and Urban Development is providing immediate relief to renters and homeowners by suspending all foreclosures and evictions until the end of April. So we’re working very closely with Dr. Ben Carson and everybody from HUD. Every generation of Americans has been called to make shared sacrifices for the good of the nation. In World War Two, young people in their teenage years volunteered to fight. They wanted to fight so badly because they love our country. Workers refused to go home and slept on factory floors to keep assembly lines running. And, you know, the numbers of ships that they built during World War Two, to this day has never — nothing like that has ever been equal. They were doing ships on a — literally on a daily basis. Nobody has ever seen anything like it. To this day, nobody has seen anything like what they were able to do during World War Two. And now it’s our time. We must sacrifice together because we are all in this together and we’ll come through together. It’s the invisible enemy. That’s always the toughest enemy: the invisible enemy. But we’re going to defeat the invisible enemy. I think we’re going to do it even faster than we thought. And it will be a complete victory. It’ll be a total victory. So we’ll have a second conference, again, having to do with the FDA and this. I think it’s going to be potentially a very exciting news conference. And we will do it as quickly as we can, so whether it’s today or tomorrow. And I’ll, with that, ask Mike Pence to say a few words. And thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dr. Birx, please. Thank you, Deborah, very much. Mark, please. Thank you very much, Mark. Seema, go ahead. Thank you very much. Robert, please. Thank you very much. Robert, thank you. Thank you all. That’s very nice. Any questions? Please. No, well, I don’t agree with that. Yeah — no, I don’t agree. That’s a absolute total worst-case scenario. But, no, we don’t look at that at all. We’re nowhere near it. Because it comes from China. It’s not racist at all. No. Not at all. It comes from China. That’s why. It comes from China. I want to be accurate. Yeah, please, John. No. No, I have a great — I have great love for all of the people from our country. But, as you know, China tried to say at one point — maybe they stopped now — that it was caused by American soldiers. That can’t happen. It’s not going to happen — not as long as I’m President. It comes from China. John, please. Yes. Yeah. We do have. We have tremendous numbers of ventilators, but there’s never been an instance like this where no matter what you have, it’s not enough. That would be the case. And we will be — it’s being signed. It’s essentially drawn, and I’m going to sign it in just a little while. If we need to use it, we’ll be using it at full speed ahead. Well, we’re going to know whether or not urgent. But we will — yeah, we do have targets. We have targets for certain pieces of equipment. We have targets for masks. You know, the masks — the numbers of masks are incredible. We’ve ordered millions of them. But we need millions more. This — a thing like this has never been requested, and it’s never — we’ve never had even to think in terms of these numbers, but we need millions of masks. And all of that will be ordered. We need respirators. We need — ventilators is a big thing because it’s a complex piece of equipment. So we have a lot of ventilators, but we’re going to be ordering more. To be determined. We’re working with the Senate right now. We’re working with everybody on Capitol Hill. There’s been tremendous — there really has been. I mean, with some exceptions, obviously, because it’s always the way it is. But there has been — they’ve been getting along very well, Republicans and Democrats. It’s a nice thing. Very bipartisan so far. Well, we’re going to see. I don’t want to get into that right now, John. We are looking at different numbers. We’re looking at timing that would be different — splitting the times, splitting the payments. We’re looking at a lot of different things. It hasn’t been determined yet, but it will shortly be determined. And people want to go big, as opposed — everybody seems to want to go big. And they want to get to the recovery. The big day is — the big thing we can do is get rid of this horrible — I call it the “unseen” — the unseen enemy. You call it — there’s a thousand different terms for it, but whatever — it snuck up on us. And it’s — it did 128 countries, I think. It’s in something like that — very close to that. Think of that. So it spreads violently. It’s a very contagious — very, very contagious virus. I do. I actually do. I’m looking at it that way because, you know, if — if it got out of control — the big thing we did was a very early stoppage of people coming in who could be very, very heavily infected. And that was a –that was a very good move. And it was very early — very, very early — when most people, including a lot of professionals, they didn’t want us to do it. That really saved a lot of lives. And, yeah, I look at it — I view it as a, in a sense, a wartime president. I mean, that’s what we’re fighting. I mean, it’s — it’s a very tough situation. You’re — you have to do things. You have to — you have to close parts of an economy that six weeks ago were the best they’ve ever been. We had the best economy we’ve ever had. And then, one day, you have to close it down in order to defeat this enemy. And — but we’re doing it, and we’re doing it well. And I’ll tell you, the American people have been incredible. For the most part, they’ve been really incredible. Yeah, please, Kaitlan. Well, you know, hospitals are supposed to have ventilators, too. And when we have thousands of ventilators — it sounds like a lot, but this is a very unforeseen thing. Nobody ever thought of these numbers. Nobody ever saw numbers like this, even with regard to testing. Normally, we wouldn’t be doing testing. And they decided to do it. Very, very hard to ramp up. Now we’re getting highly sophisticated tests, and it’s going very well. But nobody has ever heard of testing in the kind of quantities that you’re talking about. Well, we knew — it depends. It depends on how it goes. Worst case, absolutely. Best case, not at all. So we’re going to have to see where it goes. But we are ordering thousands and thousands of ventilators. And they’re complex. You know, these are complex machines, and — but we’re ordering them. Does anybody have a — Mike, maybe you do. How many do we have and we’re ordering? Please. Yeah, please. Do you know the number? We can give you that exact number. We’ll give it to you. But we’re ordering — we’re ordering a lot more. Yeah, go ahead, in the back, please. Yeah. One second. One second, Kaitlan. We’ll do it in a second. You’ll be able to. Yes. No, I said, “Not yet.” I spoke with the Prime Minister, Trudeau. Very good relationship, obviously, between us and our two countries. And no tipping point. It’s just that we want to — we want to isolate from the standpoint we don’t want people coming into contact. Because that’s the way we’re going to win this war. That is so important. And we both thought it was time. Now, it’s not affecting trade. It’s non-essential. It’s non-essential crossings. It won’t affect trade at all, and it was just something we thought would be good for both countries. Yes, please. Go ahead. Please. Well, they’re doing it in a very careful manner. You can only be vigilant and very professional. But we’re not — it’s not pertaining at this moment to trade between the two countries. Yeah, please. It could be. It could be. And we’re also playing with a lot of numbers — a lot of very big numbers and a lot of very small numbers, frankly. We want to take care of — we have to help everybody. It was nobody’s fault. This happened. I mean, some people could say it was somebody’s fault, actually. But it was nobody’s fault, and certainly none of these companies that, all of a sudden, had no passengers and planes and had no passengers on cruise ships and all of the things that have happened. But I will say that they can’t be blamed for this. And we want to keep those companies vibrant because it’s — there’s going to be a comeback very, very quickly, as soon as this is solved. And it will be solved. We will win. And there will be a comeback, and it’ll take place very quickly. Well, no, I don’t want to say that because it’s a moving — these are all — every number that you mentioned, yes, we’ve talked about those numbers; we’re also moving those numbers in both directions. So we’ll let you know. It’ll be — it’s moving along fast. Again, there’s a great bipartisan effort going on that I haven’t really seen before to this extent. No, they’re looking at it. They’re looking — it’s down the line and they’re looking at it very seriously. And I think it would be a great thing because the other is, to use a nice word, it’s very inconvenient, and it’s very tough. Well, I think we’re doing a really good job. We started off with a termination of the border — the people coming in from China, where this all started. That meant I took it very seriously. And when I use the word “calm” — “calm” doesn’t mean that I’m not taking it seriously. “Calm” means — and we should be calm. We should be extremely calm. But, yeah, 95 percent within the Republican Party, and over 50 percent. And I also have — we have very great approval numbers. I mean, people like the job that we’re doing. And when you compare this to other epidemics, or if you want to use a different term, you can, but within this country — and you look at what’s happened over the years, this is being handled very, very professionally. We have the greatest professionals in the world. We’re doing a good job. Nobody has ever been swamped like this in — nothing has been so contagious — the level of contagion has been incredible, actually. Nobody has seen anything quite like this. Yeah. Peter, go ahead. Yeah. Well, I’ll let — I’ll let Mike answer that. Deborah? Well, that — you’d have to ask them that question. I mean, they — I — I’ve read — No, I wouldn’t say so, but perhaps that’s been the story of life. That does happen on occasion. And I’ve noticed where some people have been tested fairly quickly. Look, we inherited a very — Excuse me. Excuse me. We inherited a very obsolete system. This was a system that was out of date, obsolete, or it was a system that was never meant to take care of the kind of quantity, the number of people that we’re talking about — millions and millions of people. If you go back in years past, like even recently with the flu, nobody had tests before. They didn’t test the entire nation to see whether or not they had flu. They got the flu, they got better — hopefully, they got better — and that was it. Now, all of a sudden, they do this very complex testing. What we’ve done is we’ve broken it down, we’ve broken up the system, but it was obsolete and/or you could say it was also a system that just wasn’t meant to handle the kind of volume that you’re talking about. We’ve rebuilt it into a system that, for the future, will be a very good system if you want to go this route. But this was never done before. And I would imagine it will be done in the future, but we’ve built it into a very good system by using private companies — the great private companies. And I have to say Roche has been doing a very good job. They’re doing a lot of work, a very good job. But this was an obsolete system. This was not a system that was meant to do anything like this or even near this. John? Who heads that group? Those countries do, probably. Go check. No, I know. I’m sure free trade. Look, China is paying us billions and billions of dollars in tariffs, and there’s no reason to do that. They haven’t even spoken to me about that. China hasn’t asked me to do that, but we’re getting billions of dollars a year from tariffs from China. And I can’t imagine Americans asking for that, but it could be that China will ask for a suspension or something. We’ll see what happens. China is having a very rough time. They have their worst year in 76 years, as I understand it. They’re having a very, very tough time. And then, on top of it, this happened with the virus. But, no, we’re taking in billions of dollars a year in tariffs. And this was caused by something totally unrelated to tariffs. The answer is yes. Very soon. Probably today. Yes? Yeah. Well, I think “essential” is medical. We have military working together; we have industry working together. And, again, it’s not affecting trade. So things like that. But just leisurely, “Let’s go to a restaurant and have dinner” — which a lot of people do. They come both ways; they go in both directions. That kind of thing, we have ended on a temporary basis. Yeah, please go ahead. Not close it. No, we’re not going to close it. But we are invoking a certain provision that will allow us great latitude as to what we do. Please. Yeah, go ahead. You know what — go ahead. Sure. Go ahead. I haven’t seen the article. No, I haven’t seen the article. We will — we are making a lot of progress therapeutically, I will say that. And — but I have not seen that article, no. Go ahead. Well, there were certain industries that people know. I mean, the airlines would be number one. If you look at what’s going on, they go from having the best year they’ve ever had to having no passengers because of what we’ve had to do in order to win this war. It’s a war. And so, you know, basically, you know what many of the industries are. What we want to do is we want to make sure that they all stay together so that after the war is won, we can immediately go right back up to where we were, and even beyond. I think we’re going to go beyond where we were. And a lot of people are saying that, by the way. We’re poised to do that, but we have to win the war first. Yeah. Please, go ahead. Yeah. Sure. We’re talking about all of it. I haven’t detailed it yet. We have detailed it to senators and to members of the House. We have been talking about it, and we’re coming up with numbers. Haven’t gotten there yet, but, certainly, hotel industry, the cruise ship industry, the airlines. Those are all prime candidates, absolutely. Which border? Yeah. I would say 30 days, and hopefully, at the end of 30 days, we’ll be in great shape. Jeff, please. Well, I think my earlier comments are to be calm. I mean, I do want people to be calm, because we’re going to win this and we’re going to win it. It’s just a question of time. And I want it to go quickly. So based on the fact that I want it to go quickly, I hope they just listen to what we’ve been saying over the last period of time. We don’t want them gathering. And I see they do gather, including on beaches and including in restaurants — young people. They don’t realize that — they’re feeling invincible. I don’t know if you felt invincible when you were very young, but they were feeling totally invincible or — are feeling that way, but they don’t realize that they can be carrying lots of bad things home to grandmother and grandfather and even their parents. So we want them to heed the advice. We mean the advice. And I think it’s getting through. I do believe it’s getting through, Jeff. If they’re what? Well, I think I just said it. Heed the advice. Heed the advice. I just said. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Peter. We’ll get to you next, okay? Say it? Not “think.” No, no. I don’t “think.” I know who — where it came from. I don’t know if you’d say China is to blame. Certainly, we didn’t get an early run on it. It would have been helpful if we knew about it earlier. But it comes from China, and there’s not a question about that. Nobody is questioning that. Well, I have a lot of respect for Tom Cotton, and I know exactly what he’s been saying. And there are those people that say that. So we’ll see what happens. Thank you. Go ahead. It’s your turn. Go ahead. Please. He’s been waiting a long time. Please. You’ve had your hand up so nicely for a long time. It’s your time. Right. Yeah, I’m not happy to see it. I don’t — you know, I have my own disputes with all three of those media groups. I think you know that very well. But I don’t like seeing that at all. I’m not happy about that at all. Yes, please. No, I don’t believe they’re inflicting it. I think they could have given us a lot earlier notice, absolutely. Please. Go ahead, please. Who are you asking with that question? Because I see that they’re very high. You know, if you look, I’m 95 percent in the Republican Party. We just had a poll that was done by a very reputable group. We’re — I’m beating Sleepy Joe Biden by a lot in Florida — in the state of Florida and in other states. You know, so I don’t really know who you’re talking about. All right. Jennifer, go ahead, please. Please. Yeah. I did, and they explained to me where they’re coming from. I mean, they went from, as I said, full planes — packed, the best year they’ve ever had, by far — to, boom — one day, empty — because of what we have to do to get rid of — to win this war or we would have a level of deaths like people haven’t seen before. So they’ve been fantastic. I mean, they’ve been great, but you know, they went from being extremely happy to being people that are running companies that are going to need some help. And we’ll help them, Jennifer. Well, it’s going. I mean, there’s a lot of influx to those loans, as you can imagine. A lot of people are looking at it. But we’re going to be increasing funding a lot. They’re very well prepared to do what they have to do and the SBA is doing a fantastic job. She is doing a really good job, the administrator. John? Yeah. All right. Kaitlan, go ahead. Go ahead in the back. Please. Go ahead. Please. Go ahead. No, we’re not seeing that at all. I wonder who said that. Do you know who said that? He used — Say the term again. No, just the term. “Kung flu”? No, not at all. No, not at all. I think they probably would agree with it 100 percent. It comes from China. There’s nothing not to agree on. Okay, how about the last question. Please, go ahead. Say it? So my message is to all Americans, but to those Americans who are going through a lot: We love them, we’re with them, and we will not let them down. Thank you all very much. Well, thank you very much. We have the tourism industry executives, the biggest anywhere in the world. These are the great ones, and they’re going to say a couple of little words pretty soon, I think. We’ll talk about their company quickly and the number of employees and what’s happened since the Chinese virus came about. And they’ll be discussing that. So we’re joined this afternoon by the true leaders of our nation’s travel, hospitality, and tourism industries. And I want to thank you all for being here. I’ve known many of you for a long time. Great people. I want to thank Vice President Pence for his tremendous leadership on the task force. He’s done a great job. And thanks also to Secretary Mnuchin over at the Hill. They’ve been working — and Wilbur Ross and everybody, basically. They’re all working. We’re all working very hard. We’re profoundly grateful to all of the companies and organizations here today representing tens of thousands of American workers and really representing something so important. It’s the place to stay when they come to our country. Such a big business. One of the biggest businesses. And thank you for adopting additional protocols to keep Americans healthy, including enhanced cleaning processes throughout your hotels and buildings. We know that your industry is among the hardest hit by the economic impact of the virus. Our goal is to beat the virus, and we will — we call it the hidden virus, the hidden enemy — with aggressive action now so that we can rebound stronger than ever before, and that’s what we’re doing. And everyone is cooperating. We’re really getting tremendous spirit. Republicans are getting along with Democrats, and a lot of good things are happening. Yesterday, we issued new guidelines for how all Americans can minimize their risk of exposure and stop the transmission of the virus. My administration has taken decisive action to support American workers and businesses. We love our workers. We love those workers. They’re incredible. And we’re going to come out stronger than ever before. And it’s not going to be so long. The IRS will defer tax payments for affected individuals and businesses. Today, the Senate is taking up legislation to provide for free testing — and that will happen — paid, sick, and family medical leave and nutritional assistance for the vulnerable. We’re announcing — and we will be announcing again later on — that we’re working with Congress to provide rapid relief for affected workers and industries. And this will allow us to emerge from the strongest economy on Earth because we had, literally, the strongest economy on Earth. And now this is in, as of last count, over 124 countries, I understand. A hundred and twenty-four countries. Unbelievable. But we’ll emerge — I really believe we’ll emerge stronger because we’ll be doing things differently than this country has done them in the past for many, many decades. And we’re deeply committed to ensuring that small businesses have the support they require. The Small Business Administration announced disaster loans, which provide impacted businesses with up to $2 million. And we’ve asked Congress to increase the SB lending authority. We’re going to be going up to $50 billion and, actually, much more than that for small businesses. So they’ll be helped. In your cases, they’re very big businesses, but it’s a lot of employees. And so we appreciate it very much. We appreciate your being here. And maybe, in front of the media, you could say a couple of words about your companies and the number of people you employ. And I pretty much know every one of you in that respect. It’s a lot of people and great companies. Please. Right. And tell me: So you’re in many countries. And how are you doing in other countries? Some are in very, very bad shape, I know. And that’s pretty much all over the world. Well, we’ll get it open soon and we’re going to — we’re doing a — we’re doing a yeoman’s effort. I think it’s — we’re going to be very successful. You’ll be back in business soon. But we have to keep your employees going — — and the businesses going. And we — And we will be able to do that, Chris. Thank you. But all over the world, it’s a disaster. Yeah. It’s all over. Yep. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you very much. Yeah. With the banks. Yeah. We’re dealing with the banks too, and the banks have been very accommodating. They will be. I think they will be. Thank you, David. I appreciate it. Please. Thank you. Great job. Good job. Right. How many hotel rooms now, worldwide? And this all started in China. That’s where you first saw the problem and it’s where you first got hit. I hope you all heard that. Right. Is China doing better now? Two percent? In Macau? Wow. Well, that means it’s coming. It’s . Right. No, we’re in that process. We haven’t hit that top yet. We’re in the process. Right. Thank you very much. Thank you. We will. Yep, we will. Okay, give us those suggestions. Yeah, go ahead. I see. To what? Okay. Right. So it’s individual properties, instead of — instead of accumulated properties? Okay. I got it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Patrick. Right. You have some of the sports leagues, right? You have quite a few? Yeah, I would think so. When this ends, do you see a quick build up? Right. Hopefully you can retain them. So that’s what we’re shooting for. You want to retain them. Yeah? Right. Okay. What kind of a fund would that be? In terms of dollars. Forty. Okay. I got it. Yep. I got it. I think so, too. Right. I think so, too. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Hi, Jim. We couldn’t get you a chair? What happened? I think so. Okay. We’ll get it done, Jim. We’ll get it done. Good. Is that what you like the best of the various scenarios? Most direct. Not as quick, but most direct. Thank you very much. Let me ask you, the parks outside of the United States — Closed? You closed all of — all of your parks? Everything closed? That’s a real worldwide problem isn’t it? That’s incredible. Yes? Right. Okay. Good. You guys okay? Yes, please. But they’ll come back as we age a little bit, right? I hope so. I think so. It may come back fast. Thank you very much. Thanks, Jim. Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. Please. That’s all being figured now. And we’re also helping industries like Boeing. We have to help Boeing. We have to help the airline industry. It wasn’t their fault. This wasn’t their fault. And we will do that. We’ll be doing that. So we’re adding it up. It’ll be fine. It’ll come back very quickly once we’re finished with our war with the virus. Okay? They’ve done it in smaller amounts. Yes. But we have a lot of other — Right, we’re — well, it can definitely afford it. The question is, do we want to go through payroll, or do we want to do — you know, there are four other ways of doing it. And that’s what we’re determining, along with the Senate, right now. The Senate and House — we’re all working on this together, John. Thank you all very much. Well, the message is that this was something that happened. It’s nobody’s fault. It happened and we’re going to take care of it. We’ll be bigger, stronger, better than ever before and it won’t take that long. Thank you very much. Yes. Please. No, I know. We’ll work on it. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you. So, I’m glad to see that you’re practicing social distancing. That looks very nice. It’s very good. I want to thank everybody for being here today. This morning I spoke with the leaders of the G7 — G7 nations — and they really had a good meeting. I think it was a very, very productive meeting. I also spoke with our nation’s governors. This afternoon, we’re announcing new guidelines for every American to follow over the next 15 days as we combat the virus. Each and every one of us has a critical role to play in stopping the spread and transmission of the virus. We did this today, and this was done by a lot of very talented people, some of whom are standing with me. And that’s available. And Dr. Birx will be speaking about that in just a few minutes. It’s important for the young and healthy people to understand that while they may experience milder symptoms, they can easily spread this virus, and they will spread it indeed, putting countless others in harm’s way. We especially worry about our senior citizens. The White House Task Force meets every day and continually updates guidelines based on the fast-evolving situation that this has become all over the world. It’s all over the world. It’s incredible what’s happened in such a short period of time. On the guidelines of the task force, the new modeling conducted by Dr. Birx, and our consultation with governors, we’ve made the decision to further toughen the guidelines and blunt the infection now. We’d much rather be ahead of the curve than behind it, and that’s what we are. Therefore, my administration is recommending that all Americans, including the young and healthy, work to engage in schooling from home when possible. Avoid gathering in groups of more than 10 people. Avoid discretionary travel. And avoid eating and drinking at bars, restaurants, and public food courts. If everyone makes this change or these critical changes and sacrifices now, we will rally together as one nation and we will defeat the virus. And we’re going to have a big celebration all together. With several weeks of focused action, we can turn the corner and turn it quickly. A lot of progress has been made. I’m also pleased to report today that a vaccine candidate has begun the phase one clinical trial. This is one of the fastest vaccine development launches in history. Not even close. We’re also racing to develop antiviral therapies and other treatments. And we’ve had some promising results — early results, but promising — to reduce the severity and the duration of the synd- — of the symptoms. And I have to say that our government is prepared to do whatever it takes. Whatever it takes, we’re doing. We’re doing it in every way. And with that, I’d like to just introduce Dr. Birx, who’s going to discuss some of the things that we strongly recommend. Thank you. Okay, go ahead. My favorite question; I ask it all the time. How many times, Anthony, I think I ask him that question. Every day. And I speak to Deborah; I speak to a lot of them. I get the opinion. So it seems to me that if we do a really good job, we’ll not only hold the death down to a level that is much lower than the other way had we not done a good job. But people are talking about July, August, something like that. So it could be right in that period of time where it, I say, wash — it washes through. Other people don’t like that term. But where it washes through. We’ll see what happens. But they think August. Could be July. Could be longer than that. But I’ve asked that question many, many times. Yes. Yeah. No, I think they are very scared. They see that we’re doing a very professional job. We’ve been working with the governors and the — frankly, the mayors, local government at every level. We have FEMA totally involved. FEMA has been — you know, usually we see FEMA for the hurricanes and the tornados. Now we have FEMA involved in this. They’ve been doing a fantastic job locally working with people that they know because they work — like, as an example, in California, in the State of Washington, they work with them a lot on other things, and they’re very familiar. So they’re working on it. What you can do and all you can do is — professional, totally competent. We have the best people in the world. We have, really, the greatest experts in the world. And someday soon, hopefully, it’ll end and we’ll be back to where it was. But this came up — it came up so suddenly. Look, he was surprised; we were all surprised. We heard about it. We heard about reports from China that something was happening and all of a sudden — we did make a good decision; we closed our borders to China very quickly, very rapidly. That was a — that was a — otherwise, we’d be in a very — as Tony has said numerous times, we’d be in a very bad position, much worse than we would be right now. You look at what’s happening in other countries: Italy is having a very hard time. But I think that — I think that what we do — and I’ve spoken actually with my son. He says, “How bad is this?” It’s bad. It’s bad. But we’re going to — we’re going to be, hopefully, a best case, not a worst case. And that’s what we’re working for. Yes. Well, we have that very much. Yeah, we have that very much. And we are — we’ve been pretty aggressive. We were early with Europe, but we were very, very early with China and other places. And, fortunately, we were. And as far as containment here, we are. We’re coming out with strong suggestions. And, you know, it’s becoming a little bit automatic. If you look at people, they’re not doing certain things. For instance, there’s obviously not — I wouldn’t say the restaurant business is booming, and bars and grills and all. People are self-containing for — to a large extent. We look forward to the day where we can get back to normal. Go ahead. What’s your second question? At this point not nationwide, but — well, there are some — you know, some places in our nation that are not very affected at all. But we may — we may look at certain areas, certain — certain hotspots, as they call them. We’ll be looking at that. But at this moment, no, we’re not. Yeah. Well, I had my test — it was late Friday night. And the reason I did it was because the — I had no symptoms whatsoever, so the doctor said, “You have no symptoms, so we don’t see any reason.” But when I did the press conference on Friday, everybody was going crazy. “Did you do the test? Did you do the test?” So, very late on Friday night, I did the test. And he may have put out — or the doctor may have put out something at a — I don’t know what time the letter went out, maybe it was put out by somebody else, but the results came back, I believe, the following day. And we tested negative. Well, I told them that — and I went totally by what they said — the doctors, more than one. They said, “You don’t have any of the symptoms.” They checked what you’re supposed to check and that I didn’t have symptoms. But I did it — I did a test late on Friday night. And it came back probably 24 hours later or something. They sent it to the labs; it came back later. Yeah, please. Yeah. If they can get them faster by getting them on their own — in other words, go through a supply chain that they may have. Because the governors — you know, during normal times, the governors buy a lot of things not necessarily through federal government. If they’re able to get ventilators, respirators, if they’re able to get certain things without having to go through the longer process of federal government — we have stockpiles now and we’re ordering tremendous numbers of ventilators, respirators, masks. And they’re ordered, and they’re coming, and we have quite a few at this point. I think, Mike, we have a lot. But if they can — if they can get them directly — it’s always going to be faster if they can get them directly, if they need them. And I’ve given them authorization to order directly Go ahead, please. That’s right. Well, first of all, we hope we don’t get there. And that’s what we’re doing, and that’s why we’re taking a very strict look at this. But we also are looking at areas — and not only looking; we’re expanding certain areas. We’re taking over buildings that aren’t used. We’re doing a lot in that regard. We hope we don’t have to get there, but we are doing a lot in that regard. Yeah. Well, we’re looking at that. And we may be expanding that. We are looking at that. We want fairness. We want it for everybody. No, we’re looking at that through the Senate, because as you know, the Senate is now digesting that bill. So we may very well be adding something on that. Okay? Good question. I can get back to you with that number. We’ve ordered a lot. We have quite a few, but it may not be enough. And if it’s not enough, we will have it by the time we need it. Hopefully, we won’t need them. Yeah, we’ll be able to give you — Well, we’ll give you. We can give you a number. If it’s important, we’ll give you a number. Go ahead. Well, when I’m talking about control, I’m saying we are doing a very good job within the confines of what we’re dealing with. We’re doing a very good job. There’s been a — there’s been a tremendous amount of the way they’re working together. They’re working hand-in-hand. I think they’re doing, really, a great job. And from that standpoint, that’s what I was referring to. Yeah, Steve, go ahead. I’m not referring to “it,” meaning the – Yeah, if you’re talking about the virus — No, that’s not under control for any place in the world. I think I read — I think I read — No, I didn’t. I was talking about what we’re doing is under control. But I’m not talking about the virus. Yes, please. Well, it may be. We’re not thinking in terms of recession, we’re thinking in terms of the virus. Once we stop — I think there’s a tremendous pent-up demand, both in terms of the stock market and in terms of the economy. And once this goes away, once it goes through and we’re done with it, I think you’re going to see a tremendous — a tremendous surge. We’re not really. We hope we don’t have to, Steve. We think that hopefully we won’t have to do that. But it’s certainly something that we talk about every day. We haven’t made that decision. Yeah, well, I think the federal government is doing everything that we can possibly do. We made some very good early decisions by keeping people out, by keeping bor- — countries out — certain countries where the infection was very immense. I noticed a lot of people are talking about South Korea because they’ve done a good job on one side, but on the other side, tremendous problems at the beginning. They had tremendous problems and great numbers of death. I think that we’ve done a fantastic job from just about every standpoint. With that being said, you look — no matter where you look, this is something — it’s an invisible enemy. And — but we are speaking all the time, not only with the people, but also the professional people — the nurses, the doctors. They have been doing a fantastic job. We are also working very much on getting them the kind of equipment that they need. And for the most part, they’re either — they either have it or they will be getting it. But remember this: we want the governors, we want the mayors, we want them locally — from a local standpoint, because it can go quicker — we want them to work. And we had a great talk with the governors today. I think it was a really great talk. There’s a tremendous coordination. There’s a tremendous spirit that we have together with the governors. And that’s pretty much, for the most part, bipartisan. Yeah. Well, I don’t — I don’t, number one, determine recession. I just say this: We have an invisible enemy. We have a problem that a month ago nobody ever thought about. Nobody in the — you know, I’ve read about it. I read about — many years ago, 1917, 1918. I’ve seen all of the different — the different problems similar to this that we’ve had. This is a bad one. This is a very bad one. This is bad in the sense that it’s so contagious. It’s just so contagious. Sort of, record-setting-type contagion. And the good part is the young people are — they do very well. And healthy people do very well. Very, very bad for older people, especially older people with problems. My focus is really on getting rid of this problem — this virus problem. Once we do that, everything else is going to fall into place. Yes, please. Yeah. I’ve been reading — I’ve been watching. Well, I don’t know. I mean, that I can’t tell you, if they are or not. I think a lot of the media actually has been very fair. I think people are pulling together on this. I really think the media has been very fair. I think it could be that you have some foreign groups that are playing games. But it doesn’t matter. We haven’t really determined to do that at all. And hopefully, we won’t have to. That’s a very big step. It’s a step we can take, but we have not decided to do it. Jennifer, go. Yes. Well, I’ve heard that’s true. I don’t know that for a fact. But I know that some of my people have, as I understand it, been dealing with them or with him. And that’s nice. We’ve had tremendous support from a lot of people that can help, and I believe he was one of them. As far as the airlines are concerned, the airlines — we’re going to back the airlines 100 percent. It’s not their fault. It’s nobody’s fault, unless you go to the original source. But it’s nobody’s fault. And we’re going to be in a position to help the airlines very much. We’ve told the airlines we’re going to help them. Well, we’re going to be helping. We’re going to be backstopping the airlines. We’re going to be helping them very much, John. It’s very important. We’re going to be looking at it very strongly. We have to back the airlines. It’s not their fault. In fact, they were having a record season — everybody was. They were having record seasons, and then this came out. And it came out from nowhere. So, not their fault, but we’re going to be backing the airline. Yeah. The best thing I can do for the stock market is we have to get through this crisis. That’s what I can do. That’s the best thing we can do. That’s what I think about. Once — once this virus is gone, I think you’re going to have a stock market like nobody has ever seen before. Yeah. That would be the outside number. Yeah. Hold on one second. Please, go ahead. I think they may make it even better. Look, they’re working together very well with the House. They’re working very much in unison, like the question before. They’re working to only enhance it and make it better, and make it fair for everybody. And that’s what we’re looking to do. So, we may go back and forth with the House a little bit, but both will be in a very positive fashion. Please. Well, let me just have the professionals answer that. Would you like to do that? Please. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yes, Mike. Please. I think the Admiral can answer that. And you might want to talk about the roving, also. So I think just to put it a different way: A lot of — a lot of testing has been going on. And I don’t believe anybody has been able to do what we’re doing and what we will be doing. So this has never been done before. That’s never been done, and certainly not on a level like that. And I will say that — I think I can speak for the professionals, that if you don’t have the symptoms, if your doctor doesn’t think you need it, don’t get the test. Don’t get the test. I think it’s very important. Not everybody should run out and get the test. But we’re able to handle tremendous numbers of people. John? We’re looking into it. We’ve heard that. We’ve heard it from, really, two places. There are two places that have — specifically, New York being one. And we are looking into it very strongly. Yeah. Steve go ahead, please. I’ve always washed my hands a lot. I wash my hands a lot, probably — maybe, if anything, more. Certainly not less. Not — not something I want to do every day, I can tell you that. It’s — you know, it’s a little bit of a — it’s a little bit of — of good doctors in the White House. But it’s a test. It’s a test. It’s a medical test. Nothing pleasant about it. Well, I think he can do more. But I think — I think he can do more. And, you know, it’s an area of the country that’s very hot right now. I think New Rochelle — and a place I know very well; I grew up right near New Rochelle — I think it’s a very — No, I think it’s an area that has to be tamped down even more because it’s a hotbed. There’s no question about it. So I think they can look at doing it. But we’re getting along very well. We’ve had a very — in fact, I noticed he made some statements just now that the relationship with the federal government has been good. The federal government has done everything they’ve wanted us to do. But we can — I think — I think it’s very important that all of the governors get along very well with us and that we get along with the governors, and I think that’s happening. Well, we haven’t thought of it, but, you know, I will say this: That it’s — we’re very careful. We’re very careful with, you know, being together. Even the people behind me are very — they’ve been very strongly tested. I’ve been very strongly tested. And we have to be very careful, but everybody should be. Vigilant. We have to be vigilant. I’d rate it a 10. I think we’ve done a great job. And it started with the fact that we kept a very highly infected country — despite all of the — even the professionals saying, “No, it’s too early to do that.” We were very, very, early with respect to China. And we would have a whole different situation in this country if we didn’t do that. I would rate it a very, very — I would rate ourselves and the professionals — I think the professionals have done a fantastic job. As far as the testing — you heard the Admiral — I think the testing that we’ve done, we really took over an obsolete system or, put it maybe in a different way, a system that wasn’t meant to do anything like this — we took it over. And we’re doing something that’s never been done in this country. And I think that we are doing very well. We took the system, we worked with the system we had, and we broke down the system, purposely. We broke it down in order to do what we’re doing now. And within a short period of time — and even now — we’re testing tremendous numbers of people. And ultimately, you’re saying it will be what? It will be up to — how many people will be — we’ll be able to test? Yeah, normally. But I think when you hear the — you know, this has never been done before in this country. If you look back — you know, take a look at some of the things that took place in ‘09 or ’11, or whatever it may have been. They never did — nobody has ever done anything like what we’re doing. Now, I will also say — Admiral, I think we can say that we’re also getting this ready for the future so that when we have a future problem — if and when, and hopefully we don’t have anything like this — but if there is, we’re going to be very — we’re going to be starting off from a much higher plateau. Because we were at a very, very low base. We had a system that was not meant for this. It was a smaller system. It was meant for a much different purpose. And for that purpose, it was fine, but not for this purpose. So we broke down the system, and now we have something that’s going to be — and is — very special, and is ready for future problems. And I think we can say that very strongly. Yeah. Go ahead, please. Well, I’d leave that up to the states. It’s a big thing postponing an election. I think, to me, that really goes to the heart of what we’re all about. I think postponing an election is a very tough thing. I know they’re doing — because they’ve been in touch with us — they’re doing it very carefully. They’re spreading people out very — at great distances, as you can see. And I think they’ll do it very safely. I hope they do it very safely. But I think postponing elections is a very — it’s not a very good thing. They have lots of room in a lot of the electoral places, and I think that they will do it very well. But I think postponing is unnecessary. We think about it. We think about it. If we don’t have to do it, that’ll be good. We have very strong emergency powers when it comes to something like this, both on the southern and the northern borders. And we — we are talking about different things, but we’ll see. Right now we have not decided to do that. Steve? Go ahead, please. To Dr. Fauci. Yeah, no. The market — the market will take care of itself. The market will be very strong, as soon as we get rid of the virus. Yes. No, I haven’t heard that. I haven’t heard that from Devin or anybody else. Haven’t heard it. Haven’t heard it. Well, I have to see what they said. But — Well, I would disagree with it. But right now, we don’t have an order, one way or the other. We don’t have an order. But I think it’s probably better that you don’t, especially in certain areas. Oklahoma doesn’t have a tremendous problem. Oklaho- — you said the governor of — the governor of Oklahoma? And Devin. Yeah. Well, I hadn’t heard that. Well, it’s adverse to what the professionals are saying. That’s, you know — Yeah. No, it’s adverse. But I’ll take a look at it. Absolutely. Yeah. Oh, please. Please. Do you want to answer that? Well, we haven’t said that yet. We’re recommending, but — we’re recommending things. No, we haven’t gone to that step yet. That could happen, but we haven’t gone there yet. Please. Well, hopefully this will — — pass through and hopefully that we’ll have –- everybody will be going to restaurants and flying and being on cruise ships and all of these different things that we do. And it will very, very hopefully be in a fairly quick period of time. But we’re taking a tough stance. We may make certain other decisions. We may enhance those decisions. We’re going to find out. As per the question that you were asking, some of those decisions may be enhanced. How about one more? Jennifer? Yeah. Go ahead. Please. One thing Mike just said, it’s very important to get out that this is for the next — what we’re talking about — much of what we’re talking about is for the next 15 days. Mike, go ahead. Just one more. Steve, go ahead. Please. Yeah, we had a G7 — It was a — Well, it looks like it. We’re — I’ve very confident. They’re in a position that — some of them are in a rough position, if you look at a couple of them. And some are heading toward pretty rough territory. We had a very good conference; it was a teleconference. Everybody was on the phone — every leader. And almost 100 percent was devoted to the subject that we’re talking about today. And they are working very hard. And they’re — you know, they’re very concerned, obviously, but they’re working very hard. But I would say just about all of it was — Steve, all of it was devoted to what we’re talking about. I think so. I mean, so far, it seems. We haven’t — we didn’t even discuss that. It’s still a ways off. But it was a very good discussion. And they have — there’s a great camaraderie. There’s a great togetherness. I think it was — I think I can say that very, very strongly. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Beautiful day outside. And I think we have some great things to talk about. I’ll start by discussing the Federal Reserve. As you know, it just happened minutes ago, but, to me, it makes me very happy. And I want to congratulate the Federal Reserve. For starters, they’ve lowered the Fed rate from what it was, which was 1 to 1.25. And it’s been lowered down to zero, to 0.25 or .25. So it’s 0 to .25. That’s a big difference. It’s quite a bit. It’s about a point. And, in addition, very importantly, the Federal Reserve is the — going to be purchasing $500 billion of treasuries and $200 billion of mortgage-backed securities. And that number can increase. But they’re going to start with that, and that’s really good news. It’s really great for our country. It’s something that we’re very happy. I have to say this: I’m very happy. And they did it in one step; they didn’t do it in four steps over a long period of time. They did it in one step. And I think that people in the market should be very thrilled. And that brings us — we’re the strongest country in the world, by far, financially and every other way. And that brings us in line with what other countries are. They’re actually — they actually have negative rates. But, look, we got it down to potentially zero. So that’s a big step, and I’m very happy they did it. And you will not hear anything bad about me unless it’s about a month or two from now. So I congratulate the Federal Reserve. I think it’s terrific. It just came out, just as we spoke. I wasn’t going to mention Federal Reserve or anything else, but this came out as we were walking up. I want to thank the people at Google and Google Communications because, as you know, they substantiated what I said on Friday. The head of Google, who’s a great gentleman, said — called us and he apologized. I don’t know where the press got their fake news, but they got it someplace. But as you know — this is from Google — they put out a release. And you guys can figure it out yourselves. And how that got out — and I’m sure you’ll apologize. But it would be great if we could really give the news correctly. It would be so, so wonderful. I just had a phone call with very impressive people — the biggest in the world, in the world of stores and groceries and all. And I’ll give you the names: Dave Clark, Whole Foods. Mark Clouse, CEO of Campbell Soup Company. Brian Cornell, CEO of Target. Randy Edeker, Chairman and CEO, President of Hy-Vee. Jeff Harmening, CEO of General Mills. A great company. Kevin Hourican, President and CEO of Sysco. Craig Jelinek, CEO of Costco. Todd Jones, CEO of Publix Super Markets. Donnie King, Tyson Foods. David MacLennan, Chairman and CEO of Cargill. Rodney McMullan, CEO, Chairman of Kroger — a big company. Doug McMillon, CEO of Walmart. He’s been fantastic. Doug was here, as you know, on Friday. And he watched the market go up 2,000 points. On Friday, it went up 2,000 — almost 2,000 points. Todd Vasos, CEO of Dollar General Corporation. And Vivek Sankaran, President and CEO of Albertsons. So these are all phenomenal companies. These are great companies. We had a long conversation with them. And they’ve — they’re going to work 24 hours around the clock keeping their store stocked. I would like to say that people shouldn’t go out and buy. We’re going to all be great. We’re going to be so good. We’re going to do — what’s happened with the Fed is phenomenal news. What’s happening with all of these incredible companies is phenomenal news. But you don’t have to buy so much. Take it easy. Just relax. People are going in and they’re buying more. I remember — I guess, during the conversation, Doug of Walmart said that they’re buying more than they buy at Christmas. Relax. We’re doing great. It all will pass. The folks that we spoke to, they’ve done a fantastic job. They’re going to meet the needs of the public. They’re going around the clock, if they have to. And they’re committed to the communities where they’re serving and which they serve so beautifully and have for a long time. And they’re buying a lot of additional things to sell. But again, they — they actually have asked me to say, “Could you buy a little bit less, please?” I think — I thought I’d never hear that from a retailer. All of them are working hand-in-hand with the federal government, as well as the state and local leaders, to ensure food and essentials are constantly available. And they’ll do it. There’s no shortages. We have no shortages — other than people are buying anywhere from three to five times what they would normally buy. It’s going to be there for a long time. We’re doing numbers, and there’s a pent-up demand that’s incredible. When this passes, when this goes through, you’re going to see numbers — I think, I predict; I guess I’m allowed to predict just like Wall Street people are allowed to predict, and they’re pretty much in agreement — you’re going to see there’s a pent-up demand like — like a lot of people, including me, haven’t seen before. But this has to get through. They know they’re getting through the crisis and will require an all-of-America approach, and that’s very important. They’re committed to remaining open during this crisis. Totally open. They have to stay open. Those stores have to stay open. They supply our country. Our supply chains in America are the most powerful in the world, and they’re all working very hard. They’re working around the clock. And the stores are stocking up at a level that’s beyond Christmastime. And it’s — it’s great. It was very reassuring speaking to these people. They have it totally in hand. There’s no need for anybody in the country to hoard essential food supplies. They said to me, “Could you please tell them just go and buy, enjoy it.” Have a nice dinner. Relax. Because there’s plenty. But you don’t have to the quantities because it’s hard to refill the stores on a basis as rapid as they’re refilling them. And we’re using the full power of the federal government to defeat the coronavirus, and we will do whatever it takes. And we’re doing, I think, really, really well. A lot of good things are going to happen. I want to thank all of the people standing behind me. You know, these are phenomenal people, and we have some of them right over here. But the people behind me have been working around the clock, and they’re doing an incredible job. We see what’s happening. We see what’s going on in other countries. We’re looking at — we’re learning from watching other countries, frankly. This is a very contagious — this is a very contagious virus. It’s incredible. But it’s something that we have tremendous control over. I think, very important, the young people and people of good health, and groups of people, just are not strongly affected. Elderly people that are not well, or not well in certain respects, are, really, a very dangerous group. We have to watch them. We have to protect them very much. We have to really watch over them and protect them because they are very vulnerable. And with that, if it’s okay, I’m just going to go and make some calls. I’m talking about Federal Reserve. I think it’s a tremendous thing that took place just now. I didn’t know I’d be surprised on a Sunday. I don’t know if that’s ever happened on a Sunday before. But I would think there are a lot of people on Wall Street that are very happy. And I can tell you that I’m very happy. I didn’t expect this, and I like being surprised. So our Vice President, who’s doing an incredible job, is going to take over. And I will see you probably tomorrow. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We just completed a very good meeting of the Coronavirus Task Force. And we — we’re really — they’re really doing a great job, our professionals. The results are very — very, very good. And when you compare this to what’s happening around the world, we’re very proud of our people. And there’s been a tremendous amount of coordination with states, with cities, and they’re a little smaller form of government, and they have things going well. They’re coordinating with us. And certain, in particular, I think California has been terrific — the relationship. New York has been really good. We’ve had some really good relationships in terms of — especially the hotspots. And we’re focused on those hotspots. In some areas, we don’t have no problem whatsoever, and we hope to keep it that way. Before I turn this over to our great Vice President to provide an update, I just want to express my appreciation for the hard work done by the people behind me and the people back in the various offices, including the fact that I just left the Oval Office. So we have some people there that are probably watching this or they’re just working. We’re using the full power of the federal government to defeat the virus, and that’s what we’ve been doing. Last week, we secured an initial $8.3 billion from Congress for the coronavirus, and that was quickly done and very efficiently done. And I want to thank all members of Congress. Yesterday, I declared a national emergency, which was a very big deal because it opened up avenues that we would never be able to open up without it. And it will make it more than — it will make more than $50 billion available to us immediately in disaster relief funds. And that’s available for states, territories, and local governments. So that was really, really good. We also reached an agreement yesterday on a new legislative package that will provide strong support for American families and communities in dealing with the coronavirus. So it was done very, very bipartisan. It was — it was very nice to see it. Probably the cooperation — I want to thank Secretary of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, who did a fantastic job and worked with Nancy Pelosi and their representatives. And it was really great. It worked out very well. And a lot of people are benefitting by a lot of — a lot of provisions in the bill, which they’re going to be discussing with you today. And the tremendous provision. So that’s something that we should talk about. I was honored to see that the stock market — you were mostly there with us — set a record in a short period of time — over a 45-minute period that we had the press conference yesterday in the Rose Garden. That was a record. All-time record. I think we should do one of them every day, perhaps. How about every — how about five times a day? We’ll do one five times a day. But that was something to watch. And I had no idea. We walked back, I said, “So how did that work out?” They said, “Sir, you just set a new record in the history of the stock market.” So that was pretty good. And those great companies that were there, they couldn’t have been too unhappy either, when you think about it, because they’re all very big, publicly listed companies. So they did a good job. And more importantly, they’re going to do a good job. When you look at CVS and Walmart, and all of the tremendous people that were there yesterday, these are the biggest and the best. And they’re opening up their facilities. They’re opening up — they’re, right now, literally, working right now on opening — doing something that’s never been done before, to the extent that we’re doing it. And so we’re very proud of them also. The bill provides for free coronavirus testing for all Americans who should be tested. So people that are getting tested are getting this free. They don’t have to pay — because a lot of people said, “Gee, it’s a lot of money.” And it is. It’s a — you know, it’s a pretty complex test actually, and it costs money. And it’s being provided free, so people don’t have to worry about that. It also provides paid sick and family medical leave for those who need it, including for those who have the virus, for caregivers, and those looking after children affected by school closures. So that’s all taken care of also. And we’ll continue all of these different actions. We have other things planned. We’re going to also be working with companies that are affected financially. Our country is in the best financial shape. We’ve — it’s so different than in the past, over the years. If you look at some of the real big crises we had, it was financial problems and different things. We now are in very, very strong financial shape with all of the trade and all of the other things that we’ve been doing. It’s been pretty amazing. We hope the Federal Reserve will finally get on board and do what they should do, because we’re doing things that they should be doing, frankly. And we can all do them together, but they should be much more proactive. Other boards and other countries and people representing those countries are taking a much more aggressive action than our Fed, for the most part. So we’d like to see the — you know, if you look at central banks — yesterday, what they did — we want to see our Federal Reserve be much more proactive. It’s important. But in the meantime, we’re doing things that — that are — that have been really well received. Now, I guess you saw that yesterday at the end of the day with what we’ve done. We have a lot of things to tell you, in terms of respirators, in terms of all of the different things. The masks are being made by the millions. Millions and millions. We have plenty now, but we’re ordering for the millions. We’re ordering worst-case scenario. Always — we always say “worst-case scenario.” And that’s where we’re going. So I just want to thank everybody. I think the press has been really — over the last 24 hours, I think the representation has really been very fair. For the most part, been very fair. We’re all in this together. It’s something that nobody expected. It came out of China, and it’s one of those things that happened. It’s nobody’s fault. We all — we all will solve this problem; we’ll solve it well. I think the American people have been incredible in the way they’ve acted. There’s been — and if you look at companies and sports leagues and all of the things, what they’ve done is — is just something very special, without being told, necessarily. In some cases, perhaps they were told, actually. But for the most part, they want to get it over with. They want to get it over with quickly and with very little death. As of this moment we have 50 deaths, which is — a lot of good decisions were made, or that number could be many times that. But that’s based on a lot of good decisions, one or two in particular. You know that Europe was declared the hotspot yesterday, a big hotspot and number one. And we — we made a decision quite a bit prior to that, but we saw what was happening. But if you have any questions, this group will be very happy to do it. But I just want to say they have been — led by Mike Pence — they have been incredible, the job they’re doing. They’re working 20 hours a day. This man is working 20 hours a day or maybe more. Is it more? I think it’s more. Tony has been working — I’m just looking at this whole group. And we’ve created a number of new stars, including the gentleman right behind me. I watched him the other day. It was such a fantastic job you did, and I really appreciate it. But they’re going to be answering questions. And we have a lot of new information, so I think you’ll find it very interesting. And I’ll be going back to the Oval Office. Thank you very much. I think it’s fine if they do it. I think it’s — frankly, it’s good if they do it. I think what Apple did is fine. And — want to keep people away for a little while. Just keep them away. And, you know, when it gets better — well, people are going and buying things, and I understand that. By the way, I had my temperature taken coming into the room. You did? Good. Let’s compare. Do you want to compare? Good. We’ll we’re — that means we’re all looking good. You also took — I also took the test last night. Yeah. And I decided I should, based on the press conference yesterday. People were asking that I take the test. I don’t know. Whatever it takes. A day or two days. Whatever — whatever it is. They send it to a lab. But I’ve been — Only because the press is going crazy. No, I’ve been urgent. This is urgent for me, right from the beginning. You know that because I closed up our country to China. Because it almost becomes a habit, and you get out of that habit. And, frankly, I was a non-hand-shaker, for the most part. I’ve never believed that shaking hands — once you become a politician. And I notice it too: Political people walk up to me, they want to shake my hand. I said, “Well, you know” — Just wait a minute. Wait a minute. Just take it nice and easy, okay? Just relax. People come up to me, they shake hands, they put their hand out. It’s sort of a natural reflex, and we’re all getting out of it. All of us have that problem. Somebody comes up to you, they put their hand out — you probably tend to just shake it. And we’re all getting out of that. Shaking hands is not a great thing to be doing right now, I agree. But people put their hand out. Sometimes I’ll put the hand out. You don’t think about it. People are thinking about it more and more. We have to think about it; it’s important. Somebody said yesterday I touched the microphone. I was touching it because we have different height people and I’m trying to make it easy for them because they’re going to have to touch, because they wouldn’t be able to reach the mic; they wouldn’t be able to speak in the mic. So I’ll move the mic down. And they said, “Oh, he touched the microphone.” Well, if I don’t touch it, they’re going to have to touch it. Somebody is going to have to, so I might as well be the one to do it. But, no, we all have to get away from — I mean, getting away from shaking hands is a good thing, and possibly that’s something that comes out of this. Maybe people shouldn’t be shaking hands for the long term because it does transmit flu and other things. You know, we have flu in our country that kills, on average, 36,000 people a year — 36,000 people. And, you know, that’s something that we’re not talking about. But as of this moment, we’ve lost 50 — possibly a little bit less than 50 — but probably 50 people. And we’re going to try and keep that number as low as possible. Well, if you don’t have to travel, I wouldn’t do it. If you don’t have to travel — we want this thing to end. We don’t want a lot of people getting infected. We want it to end, and end as quickly as possible. So far, I think we’ve done a fantastic job. I really think that the people behind me have not been given the credit that they deserve, because they have done a fantastic job. When you see all these school closures, when you see — the school closures are very important but it causes a lot of problems. The bill that we signed yesterday takes care of a lot of those problems with children staying at home and the parents are working. Now we take care of that issue with what we passed last night. Now, it has to go through the Senate. I have to sign it. But that will happen. But I’m now going back to the White House. You have great professionals. And if there’s anything that comes up — if there’s anything — Yes. Yes. Specifically from certain areas. Yes, we are. And we’re working with the states, and we are considering other restrictions, yes. We’re looking at it very seriously, yeah — because they’ve had a little bit of activity, unfortunately, so we’re going to be looking at that. We are — actually already have looked at it, and that is going to be announced. Yeah. No, I think I have the right to do that or the right to remove him as chairman. He’s — he has, so far, made a lot of bad decisions, in my opinion. We had this great — and we will soon have again, because I think you’re going to have a tremendous bounce when this is over. I think there’s a pent-up bounce that’s going to be tremendous. I think you saw that yesterday with the stock market. No, I’m not happy with the Fed because I think that they are following, not leading. We should be leading. I’m not happy because, if you look at the central banks of other — you know, other central banks — largely, they’re lower than us, their rate. And their equivalent of the Fed rate is lower, in some cases by two points. In some cases — that’s a lot. In some cases, very substantially. And I thought that the Fed would be and should be much more proactive as opposed to following. Our Fed is following. We have the number one currency in the world by a factor of many times, as you know. We have the currency; we have the power. We have, by far, the strong currency. Also, you look at the dollar — the strength of the dollar. Our Fed is not doing what they should be doing. We shouldn’t have a Fed rate that’s higher than our competitor nations. If you look at Germany, they’re essentially under zero; they’re negative. There are many countries negative. Japan is negative. Germany is negative. Others are negative. And we’re paying higher interest rates. And what I’d like to do is, frankly, refinance our debt. We could refinance our debt very easily at a much lower rate. We have a — we have some tremendous opportunities right now, but Jerome Powell is not making it easy. No, I have the right to remove. I’m not doing that. No, I’m not doing that. I have the right to also take him and put him in a regular position and put somebody else in charge. And I haven’t made any decisions on that. Thank you. Totally normal. I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t. Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. A beautiful day in the Rose Garden. Appreciate everybody being here. Today, I’d like to provide an update to the American people on several decisive new actions we’re taking in our very vigilant effort to combat and ultimately defeat the coronavirus. We’ve been working very hard on this. We’ve made tremendous progress. When you compare what we’ve done to other areas of the world, it’s pretty incredible. A lot of that had to do with the early designation and the closing of the borders. And, as you know, Europe was just designated as the hotspot right now, and we closed that border a while ago. So that was lucky or through talent or through luck. Call it whatever you want. But through a very collective action and shared sacrifice and national determination, we will overcome the threat of the virus. I also announced Wednesday night, following the advice of our medical professionals who are doing a tremendous job — and we appreciate it very much — that we’re suspending the entry of foreign nationals who have been to Europe in the last 14 days from entering the United States. Citizens, permanent residents, and our families — and even the families returning from Europe, will be subject to extra screening as well self-isolation for a period of 14 days. As the World Health Organization confirmed today, many of the things that — what we said were 100 percent correct, including our designation, before them, of Europe. Like our earlier, very aggressive actions with China, this measure will save countless lives. I appreciate a number of the folks behind me. A number of the people behind me said that that saved a lot of lives, that early designation. But it is only the beginning of what we’re really doing, and now we’re in a different phase. We had some very old and obsolete rules that we had to live with. It worked under certain circumstances but not under mass circumstances. They were there for a long time; they were in place for a long time. And we’re breaking them down now. And they’re very usable for certain instances, but not for this. To unleash the full power of the federal government in this effort, today I am officially declaring a national emergency. Two very big words. The action I am taking will open up access to up to $50 billion of very importantly — very important and a large amount of money for states and territories and localities in our shared fight against this disease. In furtherance of the order, I’m urging every state to set up emergency operation centers effective immediately. You’re going to be hearing from some of the largest companies and greatest retailers and medical companies in the world. They’re standing right behind me and to the side of me. I’m also asking every hospital in this country to activate its emergency preparedness plan so that they can meet the needs of Americans everywhere. The hospitals are very engaged. New York and various other places are also various engaged. I just spoke with Governor Cuomo; we had a very good conversation. And we’re working very strongly with many states, including New York. The emergency orders I am issuing today will also confer broad new authority to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The Secretary of HHS will be able to immediately waive provisions of applicable laws and regulations to give doctors, hospital — all hospitals — and healthcare providers maximum flexibility to respond to the virus and care for patients. This includes the following critical authorities: We’ll remove or eliminate every obstacle necessary to deliver our people the care that they need and that they’re entitled to. No resource will be spared. Nothing whatsoever. Ten days ago, I brought together the CEOs of commercial labs at the White House and directed them to immediately begin working on a solution to dramatically increase the availability of tests. Other countries have called us and worked with us, and they’re doing similar things or will be doing similar things. As a result of that action, today we’re announcing a new partnership with private sector to vastly increase and accelerate our capacity to test for the coronavirus. We want to make sure that those who need a test can get a test very safely, quickly, and conveniently. But we don’t want people to take a test if — if we feel that they shouldn’t be doing it. And we don’t want everyone running out and taking. Only if you have certain symptoms. Using federal emergency authorities, the FDA approved a new test for the virus. We did this within hours after receiving the application from Roche — a process that would normally take weeks. We therefore expect up to a half a million additional tests will be available early next week. We’ll be announcing locations probably on Sunday night. I want to thank Roche, a great company, for their incredible work. I’d also like to thank Thermo Fisher. The FDA’s goal is to hopefully authorize their application within 24 hours — it’ll go very quickly; it’s going very quickly — which will bring, additionally, 1.4 million tests on board next week and 5 million within a month. I doubt we’ll need anywhere near that. At the same time, we’ve been in discussions with pharmacies and retailers to make drive-thru tests available in the critical locations identified by public health professionals. The goal is for individuals to be able to drive up and be swabbed without having to leave your car. I want to thank Google. Google is helping to develop a website. It’s going to be very quickly done, unlike websites of the past, to determine whether a test is warranted and to facilitate testing at a nearby convenient location. We have many, many locations behind us, by the way. We cover the — this country in large part. So the world, by the way — we’re not going to be talking about the world right now. But we cover very, very strongly our country. Stores in virtually every location. Google has 1,700 engineers working on this right now. They’ve made tremendous progress. Our overriding goal is to stop the spread of the virus and to help all Americans who have been impacted by this. Again, we don’t want everybody taking this test; it’s totally unnecessary. And this will pass. This will pass through, and we’re going to be even stronger for it. We’ve learned a lot. A tremendous amount has been learned. I want to thank Deborah Birx, and I want to ask her maybe to come up and say a few words as to what’s happening. Dr. Birx is a highly respected person. I’ve gotten to know her very well over the last six days. And what we’ve done is rebuild something that was very old, very old-fashioned, somewhat obsolete. Certainly obsolete when it comes to the kind of numbers that we’re talking about. Dr. Birx, please. Thank you, Deborah. Thank you very much, Deborah. Great. I’d like to maybe have Tony — do you want to come up? You’ve become a — I think everybody out here knows you pretty well. But Tony has been doing a tremendous job working long, long hours. And you’ve seen a lot happen, but this has been — it’s been a great experience, and working with you has been terrific. Tony, please. Thank you very much, Tony. If I could, some of these folks we know; they’re celebrities in their own right. They’re the biggest business people, the greatest retailers anywhere in the world. And one of them is Doug McMillon from Walmart. And I’d like to have Doug, if you would, say a few words, wherever you may be. Doug, please. Thank you very much, Doug. Appreciate it very much. I’ll just stay right over here. And, Richard, if you could come up, please. Richard, please. Walgreens. Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you very much. Brian Cornell, Target. Thank you, Brian. Thank you. Please. Thank you very much. Great job. Is Tom here? Tom Polen. Tom? Tom Polen. Please. Thank you very much, Tom. Great job you’ve done. Stephen Rusckowski, Quest Diagnostics. Please. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. And Matt Sause, please, of Roche. Matt? Thank you, Matt. And you can do it. You can do it. A great company. David Pierre of Signify — Signify Health. Please. Thanks, David. Thank you very much. And we’ll be changing a lot of the rules, regulations for future, should this happen in the future, which we hope it never does. But it will, I guess — somewhere out there. There are some bad ones over the years, and I guess that’ll continue to an extent, but we hope it never happens. But we’re going to be changing a lot of the old rules and specifications and regulations. Adam Schechter, who has really been of tremendous help. LabCorp. Please. Adam? Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Thomas Moriarty, CVS. We all know CVS. Thank you. Thank you, Thomas. Thank you very much. Thank you, Thomas. Thanks. Great job. And Bruce Greenstein, LHC Group. Tremendously talented people. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Fantastic. Okay, I like that. That’s good. We’re also announcing the following emergency executive actions today: To help our students and their families, I’ve waived interest on all student loans held by federal government agencies, and that will be until further notice. That’s a big thing for a lot of students that are left in the middle right now. Many of those schools have been closed. Based on the price of oil, I’ve also instructed the Secretary of Energy to purchase, at a very good price, large quantities of crude oil for storage in the U.S. Strategic Reserve. We’re going to fill it right up to the top, saving the American taxpayer billions and billions of dollars, helping our oil industry and making us even further toward that wonderful goal — which we’ve achieved, which nobody thought was possible — of energy independence. It puts us in a position that’s very strong, and we’re buying it at the right price. And that’s something that would have not even been possible a week ago. The price of oil went down quite a bit, so we’re going to fill it up. This is a good time to fill it up. I’d like to ask Mike Pence to say a few words, please. Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Seema. Where is Seema? I’d like you to maybe take that a step further, please, on nursing homes. Thanks. Thank you very much, Seema. As I said in my address to the nation the other night, all Americans have a role to play in defeating this virus. Our most effective weapon right now is to limit the damage to our people and our country, and slow the spread of the virus itself. The choice we make, the precautions we put into place are critical to overcoming the virus, reducing its spread and shortening the duration of the pandemic — which is what it is. The CDC has published guidelines on the Coronavirus.gov to enable — it’s Coronavirus.gov, and it’s very — very heavily used right now, I will say — to enable every American to respond to this epidemic and to protect themselves, their families, and their communities, while the risks to young and healthy Americans remains very low. We’ve learned a lot about this over the last two weeks. Anyone can be a carrier for the virus and risk transmission to older Americans and those with underlying health conditions and those who are most at risk. They have not done very well. Older Americans who are — especially, if they have a health problem, they have not done well. We must take all precautions and be responsible for the actions that we take and that we see other people take. We want to prevent the spread and transmission of the disease. It’s incredible what’s — sports — what’s happening with the sporting world, where so many of the great sports that we’ve gotten so used to at this time of the year, they’re not going to be meeting. And they’ve done a great service actually. But that — would be another way that it could be — problems could be caused. But this is why I outlined on Wednesday night my admiss- — administration’s — the fact that we’ve issued a requirement suspending all medically unnecessary visits to various places, but in particular, nursing homes. We should all be working off the same playbook when it comes to protecting Americans. We have to. We need to be consistent in adopting measures to limit the spread of the virus. The virus is the same, whether it’s spreading in cities, towns, or rural communities. The tools and tactics for attacking it are similar no matter where you go. No matter where you go. You have some hotspots throughout the world right now that people would have never thought possible, and they’re being very seriously affected. Key among these efforts are breaking chains of transmission between people. These measures have been adopted by many companies, universities, and schools. And we want to protect the safety and the health of their employees and their students. I encourage everyone to follow the guidelines we’ve issued by CDC and these commonsense measures. A lot of it is common sense. For the areas where the virus is spreading, the CDC is advising communities to postpone large gatherings, postpone assemblies, social functions, and sporting events; stagger recess and lunch for schools that aren’t canceled; limit in-person meetings; increase scheduled cleanings; and cancel work-sponsored travel — among numerous other steps that can be taken. Americans are the strongest and most resilient people on Earth, and in the coming weeks, we will all have to make changes and sacrifices, but these short-term sacrifices will produce long-term gain. And again, I’ve said we’re learning a lot for the future and future problems like this, or worse. Or worse. It could get worse. The next eight weeks are critical. We can learn — and we will turn a corner on this virus. Some of the doctors say it will wash through, it will flow through. Interesting terms and very accurate. I think you’re going to find in a number of weeks it’s going to be a very accurate term. In times of hardship, the true character of America always shines through. We live in the company of the greatest heroes and the most inspiring citizens anywhere in the world. We want to take care of our people. We want to draw on the strength of our history, draw on the strength of our people, and we will get through this all together. We will just get through it. So much progress has already been made. And, frankly, the numbers — because of steps that have been taken — are at a level that a lot of people are surprised, especially when you compare them with other places with far smaller populations. The spirit and the will of our nation is unbreakable. We will defeat this threat. When America is tested, America rises to the occasion. And to those families and citizens who are worried and concerned for themselves and their loved ones, I want you to know that your federal government will unleash every authority, resource, and tool at its disposal to safeguard the lives and health of our people. So we’re with you every step of the way. No nation is more prepared or more equipped to face down this crisis. As you know, we are rated number one in the world. We’re also helping other nations — many other nations; we’re helping them a lot. And they’re doing okay, in some cases. In some cases, they’re not doing well at all. But we’re working with a lot of groups of people and a lot of other nations. With faith and heart and hope and love and determination, we will succeed. We will prevail. We will be very, very successful. And we’ll learn for the future. Thank you all very much. If you have any questions, we can take some. Go ahead, John. Please. And if you’d like to ask some of the folks up here, it would be fine. Please. Well, we just don’t think they’re giving enough. We don’t think the Democrats are giving enough. We’re negotiating. We thought we had something, but all of a sudden they didn’t agree to certain things that they agreed to. So we could have something, but we don’t think they’re giving enough. They’re not — they’re not doing what’s right for the country. Go ahead, please. Yeah. Yeah, well, that’s true. And we are looking at many different things, as you know. You know some of them — they’ve been written about very widely. But we’re going to be releasing a paper in about two hours stating quite a few other steps. Very important ones. Please, go ahead. No, we have no symptoms whatsoever. And we have — we had a great meeting with the President of Brazil, Bolsonaro. Great guy. Very — a very tremendous — he’s done — he’s doing a fantastic job for Brazil. And, as you know, he tested negative — meaning, nothing wrong — this morning. And we got that word, too. Because we did have dinner with him; we were sitting next to each other for a long period of time. No, we — we have. We’re talking about it, country to country, but we did discuss if he had a problem. It was reported that he may have it, and he doesn’t, fortunately. Yeah, no, I don’t take responsibility at all, because we were given a — a set of circumstances and we were given rules, regulations, and specifications from a different time. It wasn’t meant for this kind of an event with the kind of numbers that we’re talking about. And what we’ve done is redesigned it very quickly with the help of the people behind me. And we’re now in very, very strong shape. I think we’ll be announcing, as I said, Sunday night, and this will start very quickly. And we — we’ll have — we’ll have the ability to do in the millions over a very, very quick period of time. So, no. And what we have done — and we are going to be leaving a very indelible print for the future, in case something like this happens again. But it was a — and that’s not the fault of anybody. And, frankly, the old system worked very well for smaller numbers — much smaller numbers — but not for these kind of numbers. Tony, maybe you’d like to say something? Tony, please. And, interestingly, if you go back — please — if you go back to the swine flu, it was nothing like this. They didn’t do testing like this. And actually, they lost approximately 14,000 people. And they didn’t do the testing. They started thinking about testing when it was far too late. What we’ve done — and one of the reasons I think people are respecting what we’ve done: We’ve done it very early. We’ve gotten it very early. And we’ve also kept a lot of people out. Yes, please. Go ahead. Please. Well, ask them how they — — did with the swine flu. It was a disaster. Next, please. Next, please. They had a very big failure with swine flu. A very big failure. Yeah. Well, that was recommended to me by a group of professionals, and we are looking at it based on the new numbers that are coming out. And we may have to include them in the list of countries that we will, you could say, ban — or whatever — it is during this period of time. But, yeah, their numbers have gone up fairly precipitously over the last 24 hours, so we may be adding that, and we may be adding a couple of others. And we may, frankly, start thinking about taking some off. Go ahead. It’s true. I think it has been helpful. We’ve been working very much with China. I’ve spoken, as you know, with President Xi. They went through hell, and their numbers are starting to look very good. They’re really — they’re really looking very good. We’re very happy about that. We are sharing data, yes. In fact, we’re sharing quite a bit of data, including the fact that some of our pharmaceutical companies are working over there right now with large groups of people. Yeah, go ahead. Please. Yes, I did. So we didn’t discuss the border. We’ve had a very good relationship. Just about finished with the USMCA, as you know. He called — actually, he called me to tell me that. I think that was the primary reason for the call. At the time, his wife had not been diagnosed. And she’s a lovely lady — wonderful lady, great lady. And since then, I’ve heard — read that the result was that she has it. And I was a little surprised. I think he was surprised also. We did discuss it prior to. She’s going to be fine, but he thought that she would not, most likely, have the virus. Unfortunately, she does. But we didn’t discuss the border yesterday, no. Go ahead, please. If you have any questions for these great geniuses up here, you should — even a business question related to what we’re talking about. Well, I don’t know that I had exposure, but I don’t have any of the symptoms. And we do have a White House doctor and, I should say, many White House doctors, frankly. And I asked them that same question, and they said, “You don’t have any symptoms whatsoever.” And we don’t want people without symptoms to go and do the test. The test is not insignificant. As far as the cruise line business, we’re with them all the way. It’s a great business. It’s a great U.S. business, frankly. And I know how important they are to the country. That includes airlines. But the cruise line business, obviously, was hit very hard. We had a tremendous success out in Oakland where we moved it. Vice President Pence did a fantastic job with that. We worked with UK. We worked with Canada. They took their people back. And Canada has approximately 600 people; UK, likewise, took a large number of people back to the United Kingdom. And we have people quarantined. It was a big operation, and it worked out really — you don’t hear about it anymore. It worked out really well. Mike, you may even want to say something about that because that was really done properly. Go ahead, please. And I might add that we’re in the process — and, in some cases, have already done it — ordered a large number of respirators, just in case. We hope we don’t need them, but we’ve ordered a large number. Yeah. Go ahead, please. Right. Well, some are making progress; some are not, as you know. But some are making progress. And as they make progress, as they get down to the number that we all think is right — that they know is right, we know is right — we’ll be opening it up. And some are really moving along rapidly. We hope to be able to open things up as quickly as possible. Go ahead, please. Go ahead. That was . Right. Better. Better. Not 100 percent, but 90 percent. Go ahead. Okay. OAN, please. OAN. No, we have our deal with China. They’re going to be buying $250 billion worth of goods and $50 billion from our farmers. And that’s a great deal for our country; it’s about time somebody did that. And, frankly, phase two, we’ll start negotiating. I did read one article, but I don’t think that article was representative — certainly not of my conversations with President Xi — and they know where it came from. We all know where it came from. Yes. Well, I just think it’s a nasty question because what we’ve done is — and Tony has said numerous times that we’ve saved thousands of lives because of the quick closing. And when you say “me,” I didn’t do it. We have a group of people I could — I could ask perhaps — my administration — but I could perhaps ask Tony about that because I don’t know anything about it. I mean, you say — you say we did that. I don’t know anything about it. We’re spending — I don’t know. It’s the — It’s the — it’s the administration. Perhaps they do that. You know, people let people go. You used to be with a different newspaper than you are now. You know, things like that happen. Okay. Please go ahead. We’re doing a great job. Let me tell you, these professionals behind me and the — these great, incredible doctors and business people — the best in the world. And I can say that. Whether it’s retailers or labs, or anything you want to say, these are the best of the world. We’re doing a great job. We have 40 people right now. Forty. Compare that with other countries that have many, many times that amount. And one of the reasons we have 40 and others have — and, again, that number is going up, just so you understand. And a number of cases, which are very small, relatively speaking — it’s going up. But we’ve done a great job because we acted quickly. We acted early. And there’s nothing we could have done that was better than closing our borders to highly infected areas. Please, go ahead. Yes, sure. I hope not long, but it’s there now and it gives tremendous powers for things that we need. Tremendous power, actually. And the Stafford Act and various other things that we’re involved with and have studied and memorized in so many different ways and forms, it gives the kind of power that we need to get rid of this virus. And we’re going to do it very quickly. And I hope we won’t need it very long, but whatever it takes. Yeah. Sure. Well, Italy is having a — Italy is having a very — yeah — we’re in touch with Italy and, you know, it’s a — it’s a country that we love. We have tremendous — millions and millions of people, originally — origins from Italy. And we’re working with them. They’re in a very — they’re in, probably, relatively speaking, the toughest position of all. We’re in touch with everybody. We’re in touch with — when I say “everybody,” we’re in touch with many of the countries that you know about, that you’re writing about. And they’re calling us asking for advice. They’re asking for the advice of the people behind me. Italy has got a tough situation, but they’re — they’re really — they have really clamped down and I think they’re going to see some very good results. It’s tough. What they did — they really took their medicine, but they’re going to see some much better results. Yeah, Jeff. Well, I’ll tell you, first of all, I’m not coming back from someplace. We — and there was somebody that they say has it. I have no idea who he is, but I take pictures and it lasts for, literally, seconds. I don’t know the gentleman that we’re talking about. I have no idea who he is. I haven’t seen the picture. I said, “There’s a picture of somebody,” but I take sometimes hundreds of pictures a day. And that night I was taking hundreds of pictures. So I just don’t know. Now I did sit with the President for probably two hours, but he has tested negative. So that’s good. Please, go ahead. Go ahead, please. I would say, if you stay home, it’s not bad. It’s not bad. Now, there are certain parts of the country that are — essentially, have no — have zero problem. Washington has been very tough — in particular, a nursing home. And, but Washington — the State of Washington has been very tough. It’s been a big percentage of — when you talk about the 40 deaths, that’s been has been a big percentage of the deaths, as you know very well. And they all came from a very certain area, unfortunately. Please, go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. Yes. Well, in light of the results, as we discussed before — in light of the results, we’re going to be looking at it. And I know the task force is looking at it very strongly — the Vice President, everybody. It was looking good, but they’ve –the results have been building up pretty rapidly. So we’ll — we’ll be taking another look at that. Yes, absolutely. Go ahead, please. I think they have to listen to their doctors, and I think they shouldn’t be jumping to get the test unless it’s necessary. But I think they have to listen to their doctors. And I mean, I don’t know the — I haven’t seen the picture. Somebody said there’s a picture with somebody taking a picture with me, but I haven’t seen it. But I can tell you — Well — Well, I didn’t say I wasn’t going to be tested. Most likely, yeah. Most likely. Not for that reason, but because I think I will do it any way. Fairly soon. We’re working on that. We’re working out a schedule. You go ahead, please. Go ahead. Yeah. Well, that’s been true for a while. But I’ll let Mike — why don’t you answer that, Mike, please? I think you have to remember, though: We’re working very closely with states, and you have a smaller form and more targeted form of government going in and doing it — like, in New York, where the relationship is very good; like Gavin Newsom, where he made some very complimentary — because that’s California — he made some really complimentary comments the other day about how we’re working together. We worked on the ship together, but we worked on a lot of other things together, having to do with this. And we’re — well, really, the relationship that we have — I can’t think of a bad relationship. We’re helping them. We’re funding them, in some cases, depending on what it is you’re talking about. And we’re all working together very closely. So we’ve done, really, I think a tremendous job of teamwork with the different states. All right. One or two more. And if you have — if you have questions for these folks — does anybody have a question for the folks up here? Who has a question up here? You have? Okay, go ahead. If you have a question, go ahead. Okay. I thought — I knew you would. I was waiting for that. Go ahead. Ask them first, please. Well, I didn’t suggest that it could happen, but I can tell you it’s an industry that was very badly impacted by what’s going on with the virus. And it’s a great industry. It’s a very important industry and we will be helping them. And we will be helping the airline industry, if we have to — assuming we have to. So far, people haven’t been asking. But if they should be asking, we’ll — we want to make sure our airlines are very strong. And then, one day — and one day, all of a sudden, it wasn’t looking so good. Interestingly, we were just talking — I was talking to Doug, and the numbers they’re doing from the retailing standpoint — I guess, because of this, your business is like the opposite. All of you have done — you’ve been selling a lot of — a lot of stuff. Do you want to answer the question, as to the hand sanitizers? Please. Alex, please. Okay. One more. Go ahead. Go ahead. No. Over here. Behind you. Behind you. That’s true. Thank you. Well, on small businesses, the Small Business Administration is now stacked with money to help them, and we’re going to make the money readily available if they need it — small businesses. We had a great time in India. It was an incredible two days, and he’s a great friend of mine. And he’s a friend of his people, because he was greeted incredibly warmly, as was I. And that stadium — that was an incredible event. And I loved being with him, so just say hello to him. But we — we talked about everything. We talked about far more than just borders. And as far as President Xi — likewise, he’s a friend of mine. I believe that we are dealing in good faith. And we just worked to, as you know, and as I just said — we just worked an incredible deal. A big deal. One of the biggest deals ever made of any kind. Big even by the standards of some of the people here — the deal with China. But I think that they want to get to the bottom of things also. We’re working — our drug companies, our pharmaceutical companies are working very closely with China and with India, as you know, and with — all over the world. And they’re all over the world. These are magnificent companies that are very, very knowledgeable. And it’s — we’re very lucky to have them, because I think you’re going to come up with — whether it’s therapeutic or whether it’s just help — helping getting better. And then ultimately, a vaccine, which takes a little bit longer because of the test periods and a couple of other reasons. You’re going to have it very quickly because of the great knowledge. And they’ll have it very quickly. They’ve made a tremendous amount of progress. Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, thank you all very much. It’s an honor to be with the Prime Minister of Ireland. We’ve known each other now for quite a while, and we have a great relationship and a great relationship with Ireland. And we have a lot to discuss. We will be talking about the obvious, and we’ll also be talking about the virus that’s hit the world. I see they’ve cancelled their big soccer games, their championship games, and a lot of other games. They’ve cancelled a lot over in Europe and all over the world. So this is big world problem. We’ve taken some bold steps. We took the original boldest step of all when we closed very early with China. That helped us save thousands of lives. And we went very early with Europe. And I think that’ll likewise be very good, and hopefully we can get it back together very quickly in terms of reestablishing with China. That’s on track to — something happened fairly quickly, because they’ve made a lot of progress over the last three of four weeks. And certainly, with Europe, we think we can go, hopefully, very quickly. They have some hotspots that are really bad, but they’ll get them better. Germany, I guess, has some problems now. France has some problems — some pretty big problems. And Italy, of course, is probably record-setting in terms of what they’ve gone through. Italy is having a very hard time. But we think we’ll reestablish very quickly once this ends, and it’s just a question of time. And I think it’ll go pretty quickly. Stay away from people and wash your hands, and do all of the things that we’re supposed to be doing a little bit anyway. But it’ll be — it’ll go very quickly. I know that — we were just talking — that Ireland has closed their schools. And maybe I’d ask the Prime Minister to say a little bit about what you’re doing in Ireland having to do with that we’re going through. Thank you. Right. Right. Sure. Right. And we’re making great progress there, I will say. Right. Well, they know, and I think it was made very clear last night who is and who isn’t. And we’ll be discussing that. We’ll be discussing some other moves that we’re going to be making. And I think it’s going to work out very well for everybody. But it’s a world problem, and you do need separation in some cases. You have some areas that are very heavily infected, and you have some areas that aren’t, frankly. But we do need separation for a little period of time, in some cases. And one of the reasons the UK, basically, has been: It’s got the border; it’s got very strong borders. And they’re doing a very good job. They don’t have very much infection at this point, and hopefully they’ll keep it that way. Well, we get along very well with the European leaders, but we had to make a decision, and I didn’t want to take time and — you know, it takes a long time to make the individual calls. And we are calling, and we have spoken to some of them prior to — some of the majors, prior to. But we had to move quickly. I mean, when they raise taxes on us, they don’t consult us, and I think that’s probably one in the same. They’ve done things — the European Union, as you know, has done some very big tax raises over the years, not so much with me because I won’t put up with it. But they haven’t consulted us. In the case of the European Union, I consulted with many people. Well, it’ll be a big impact, but it’s a bigger impact, and it’s also a human impact, which is more important, frankly, than the financial, when you lose thousands of additional lives. As an example, if I didn’t close very, very early, Leo — you know, we closed very early with China, and I took a lot of heat, including from you people. A lot of heat. They called me everything from a “racist” to everything else. It was terrible. And the same people, then they say, “Oh, he closed too fast. Why did he close…” — most of them said, “Why did he close with China?” That turned out to be a great move. What we did with Europe is — this was the time. And China — a lot of it came from — when you think of what happened to Europe, because it was very fast and very furious, and what happened is a lot of people went from China into Europe, and Europe suffered tremendously. You know, you see what’s going on. And so I just wanted that to stop as it pertains to the United States. And that’s what we’ve done — we’ve stopped it. Right, I did. We had some big rallies. We cancelled one that we were thinking about doing in Las Vegas, as you know, and one in Reno, Nevada. We had one — we had about three of them in Nevada, actually. And we had four or five of them that we were thinking about. We have a big one in Tampa, all sold out. We have over 100,000 requests for tickets, but I think we’ll probably not do it because people would say it’s better to not do. You know, we need a little a separation until such time as this goes away. It’s going to go away. It’s going to go way. I was watching Scott — I was watching Scott this morning, and he was saying within two months. But, you know, in the meantime, we want to lose as few people as possible. So important. And what is the number as of this morning? Is it 32? You could tell me. Is it 32 deaths? Steve? Around that. I mean, think of it: The United States, because of what I did and what the administration did with China, we have 32 deaths at this point. Other countries that are smaller countries have many, many deaths. Thirty-two is a lot. Thirty-two is too many. But when you look at the kind of numbers that you’re seeing coming out of other countries, it’s pretty amazing when you think of it. So, that’s it. Well, we have things that I can do. We have very strong emergency powers under the Stafford Act. And we are — we have it — I mean, I have it memorized, practically, as to the powers in that act. And if I need to do something, I’ll do it. I have the right to do a lot of things that people don’t even know about. Well, I don’t want to say that, but, you know, at some point, it may be some of the more minor things at this point. But, you know, look, we’re in — we’re in great shape. Compared to other places, we are in really good shape, and we want to keep it that way. That’s why I did the ban with respect to Europe. I have a lot of emergency actions that I can take. Yeah. Well, we’re looking at a lot of things, including paid leave, and — we’re looking at many things. We’re also making sure they’re going to get their salaries. We have other workers too, and those are people that work for tips, and nobody thinks about them. And we’re including them in a lot of our schedules. We’re also making sure that the companies, which are good companies, stay solvent, have the money necessary to keep functioning. So we have a lot of things that we’re working on with the financial markets. And it’s going to work out fine. You know, we’re — You have to remember, the stock market, as an example, is still much higher than when I got here. And it’s taken a big hit, but it’s going to all bounce back and it’s going to bounce back very big at the right time. Well, we’re deciding right now, and we’re dealing also — prior to even the Stafford Act, we’re dealing with the Democrats in Congress and we’ll see what can be done. I happen to think that a payroll tax cut would be a very good idea. It very dis- — you know, it distributes it — really distributes it very evenly among middle class and other workers. I mean, many workers. It would be a great thing. I happen to think it would be a great thing even beyond this, okay? So we’re looking at the payroll tax cut, and that won’t come immediately because that’s a stronger measure. But we are looking to do that. And I think, at the right time, Congress will probably go along with it, because it really is the most sensible thing. We had the biggest bankers in the world here yesterday, getting their opinions. They all thought payroll tax cut would be a great thing. It would evenly and quickly distribute a lot of money. No, because there are things in there that have nothing to do with what we’re talking about. So, you know, it’s not a way for them to get some of the goodies that they haven’t been able to get for the last 25 years. Always. Always. Always. Just like your Prime Minister, always. They will be not only welcome — loved. We have millions — what is the number now, would you say? It changes every year. It gets actually bigger. Can you imagine? It’s got to be one of our — — it’s got to be one of our biggest. No, we — we love the Irish. We’re going to be looking at that. We’re going to be talking about that today. It’s a very important part of our conversation. It’s going to be, actually, a very important part of our conversation today. Well, I think there’s a lack of security. If they use Huawei, there’s a real problem with intelligence and intelligence security. And we’ll see what happens. We’ll be discussing that point also. Can it what? Sure. But we have them very heavily tested. If an American is coming back or anybody is coming back, we’re testing. We have a tremendous testing set up where people coming in have to be tested. And if they are positive and if they’re able to get through, because if they’re, frankly, if they’re not — we’re not putting them on planes if they’re — if it shows positive. But if they are — if they do come here, they have to — we’re quarantine — it’s going to be a strong enforcement of quarantine. Look, the key is you have to have separation. We have to have separation or this thing takes longer to go away. But the real — really important — and I think you can say this for your country, I think we can say if for a lot of countries, for all countries, hopefully: It goes away. It’s going away. We want it to go away with very, very few deaths. People have, you know, we call it cases — how many cases do you have? Well, relative to other countries, we have very few cases relative to certain of the — of the major countries that really have a bigger problem than us. We’ve offered, by the way — just interestingly, I think we have the greatest doctors in the world. We’ve offered Iran assistance. Iran is having a tremendous problem, and we have offered Iran assistance. If they’d like it, we will help them. We’d be glad to help them. Yeah. Yeah. I’d rather not say. But let’s just put it this way: You will see. Okay? I can’t say. I was working on that last night also. They sent a lot of rockets now. It hasn’t been fully determined it was Iran, as you know. It was a rebel group. But most likely, it looked like it could be backed by Iran. And we’ll see what the response is. Well, he’s a friend. I always want him to return because he’s a friend. We’ve been doing this now for quite a while. We started off both — both new to the job. And, yes, I would always like to see him. I know they have other people that I know and I get along with very well. Look, we get along with the country, but this is a very special guy. Well, we’ll be — we’ll get there. Yeah, I did hear something about that. We had dinner together in Florida in — at Mar-a-Lago, with the entire delegation. I don’t know if the press aide was there. If he was there, he was there. But we did — we did nothing very unusual. We sat next to each other for a period of time. Had a great conversation. He’s doing a terrific job in Brazil. And we’ll find out what happens. I guess they’re being tested right now, right? I’m — let’s put it this way: I’m not concerned. Well, no, I — Yeah, I was watching. They have a million tests out now. They’re going to have — over the next few days, they’re going to have 4 million tests out. And, frankly, the testing has been going very smooth. If you go to the right agency, if you go to the right area, you get the test. Now, with that being said, as you know, millions are being produced. This is a brand-new thing that just happened. But millions are being produced. If you go back and look at the swine flu and what happened with the swine flu, you’ll see how many people died and how actually nothing was done for such a long period of time, as people were dying all over the place. We’re doing it the opposite. We’re very much ahead of everything. Well, you’re talking about one case. I mean, I can certainly look into it, John. It’s one case. I’ve heard also it goes very well. I watched Scott Gottlieb today, who’s — was with us and I respect him a lot. I like him and I respect him. And he was talking about how we have so many different — and in some cases, they’re in California where we have too many. And then in other cases, the distribution could be a little bit better for certain areas. But we’ve done a good job on testing. And it was very interesting. You might ask Scott about it actually. No, I won’t be going. No, I have other things to do. I’m very busy. Sure. It’s possible. And it’s possible I could also say that we could do it early. We could end it early. But I thought it was an important thing to do because of what’s happening over there. Well, I think the Democrats won’t be having rallies, but nobody showed up to their rallies anyway. So what difference does it make? I’ll be — my rallies are very big. They’re very big rallies. And we’ll be making a decision at the appropriate time. I mean, the next one scheduled is for the 25th, and that’s in Tampa. But we’ll have to see whether or not we do it. No, I’m not going to do it if I think it’s going to be negative at all. If people are — if we haven’t made that turn yet. We’ll make the turn. The question is when, and the question is how many people will die. And I don’t want people dying. That’s what I’m all about. I made a very tough decision last night and a very tough decision a long time ago with respect to China. I don’t want people dying, and that’s why I made these decisions. And whether it affects the stock market or not, very important, but it’s not important compared to life and death. So I had to make that decision. And, frankly, the people that are professionals praised the decision. And it’s something I had to do. And I think you’ll see the end result is very good because of it. But it will take a period of time. No, on the rallies, we’ll make that decision. But at this moment, we don’t have — I was going to Las Vegas. I was going out to Nevada, as I said. I was going to Colorado where we have Cory Gardner running. And he’s doing a great job, by the way. He’s done a fantastic job. But we’ve postponed that. I think we’re going to have Cory coming in here maybe on Friday. We’re going to do our event from the White House. But we have a lot of things that we’re moving around because of what’s happening and because I want to be here. This is the nerve center. I want to be right here. I don’t want to be flying around in airplanes all over the place. I want to be right here. No, I’m not. Well, actually people said, you know, “You’re dealing with people that maybe you don’t want to deal with.” I said, “You’re right about that.” They have not, but it’s common sense. You know, a lot of it is — and what I say is: Use common sense, like washing your hands and, you know, certain things. Keep a little bit of distance away. That’s why the sporting events are a little bit tough because you have people sitting in small seats right next to each other. So it’s a little bit tough. What happened with the NBA is pretty incredible, but you look over in Europe, and you see their big soccer matches were canceled. And it’s pretty amazing when you when you think of what happened and how fast this spread to the world. It was one country, then it was four countries, then it was nine. I’m reading this list every week. Then it was 13, then it was 22. And now, I guess, it’s over 100 countries. So it’s a — it’s an amazing thing how fast this one spread. This is — this is a very fast spreader. No, I just wish the Prime Minister — he’s a great friend of mine, Prime Minister Abe. And I wish him luck. They did such a perfect job. The venues are incredible. He was proudly showing me pictures of what they’d done the last time I was with him. This is before this came up. And I said, “What a job.” And they built it very well. They built it on budget, right on — even under budget. And they’re beautiful facilities. I don’t know. I mean, it’s very possible — it’s very possible that for the Olympics maybe — I just can’t see having no people there — in other words, not allowing people. Maybe — and this is just my idea — maybe they postpone it for a year. Maybe they do that, if that’s possible. Maybe they — maybe that’s not possible. I guess it’s never happened with the Olympics. Although I think there was interruption for wars. Right. It was canceled or interruption. But I would say maybe they postpone it for a year. It’s a shame because, really, I’m — you know, I used to be in the real estate business as you probably heard. They built some — and I built beautiful buildings, and they built some really beautiful buildings. No, no. They’re very smart. They’re going to make their own. But, you know, I like that better than I like having empty stadiums all over the place. I think if you cancel it, make it a year later, that’s a better alternative than doing it with no crowd. Well, we didn’t shake hands today. And we looked at each other, we said, “What are we going to do?” You know, it’s sort of a weird feeling. And we said at the same time — we did this. You know, I just got back from India, and I didn’t shake any hands there. And it was very easy because they go like this. And Japan goes like this. They were ahead of the curve, okay? Now, we looked at each other and we said — and we also had a lot of press staring at us, right? We’re saying, “Are we supposed to shake hands?” And when his group of very smart representatives came in, who I know, likewise we didn’t. It’s a very strange feeling. You know, I was never a big hand shaker, as you probably heard. But once you become a politician, shaking hands is very normal. And it’s a very strange feeling when people that you know and like, they walk up and say, “Hi.” And they’re just like this. We were saying it’s a little bit — it’s a little bit, you know, different. Oh, sure. It has — no, it has — Yeah, it has an obvious effect. The only thing worse can be that you lose thousands and thousands of people more than you would’ve lost if you did it the way we’re doing it. So it certainly has an impact. And again, we’re very much working with the states because, you know, the states are a smaller form of government. They can control individual arenas and individual things better. And it’s different for different areas. Some areas have no problem whatsoever in our country and others do. So we’re working with the governors of the various states, and it’s — I think it’s working very well. I think the relationship has been very good with California and some others that in particular have been hit. Yeah, I’m happy. I — whoever it is, I hope they make their choice soon. I thought it was going to be — everybody thought it was going to be Bernie. And I’ve said, Elizabeth Warren, if she waited for — you know, she waited that extra three days, four days, and Super Tuesday was a disaster — he would’ve won every one of those states or almost — I think almost every one of those states — Maine, Massachusetts, Texas. You take a look at the states that were very close, and many of her — I would say most of her — I would almost say all of her — but many of her votes would’ve gone to him. So had she left prior to Super Tuesday, with just a few days, he would right now been declared virtually the winner. It would’ve been over. But now we have Joe, and I’m very happy to run against Joe. You know, one of the reasons I ran for President is because of Joe and the job they did. So it’s one of the reasons. So in way, it’s — in a way, it’s — you know, it’s maybe the way it should be. But it looks to me like it would be Biden would win. We haven’t discussed that yet. Is it a possibility? Yes. If somebody gets a little bit out of control, if an area gets too hot. You see what they’re doing in New Rochelle, which is — which is good, frankly. It’s the right thing. But they’re not — it’s not enforced. It’s not very strong. But people know they’re — they’re being watched. New Rochelle. That’s a hotspot. I did. Well, I asked him what’s going on. And they’re having a dispute with Russia. This is something that drove oil prices down. And one thing I can tell you is oil prices are at a point now that I would’ve dreamed about because the gasoline prices are going to be coming way down. They’ll be coming way down. So with gasoline prices coming down, that’s like a tax cut. Frankly, that’s like a big tax cut, not a little tax cut for the consumer. So there’s something about that that I like. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. My fellow Americans: Tonight, I want to speak with you about our nation’s unprecedented response to the coronavirus outbreak that started in China and is now spreading throughout the world. Today, the World Health Organization officially announced that this is a global pandemic. We have been in frequent contact with our allies, and we are marshalling the full power of the federal government and the private sector to protect the American people. This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history. I am confident that by counting and continuing to take these tough measures, we will significantly reduce the threat to our citizens, and we will ultimately and expeditiously defeat this virus. From the beginning of time, nations and people have faced unforeseen challenges, including large-scale and very dangerous health threats. This is the way it always was and always will be. It only matters how you respond, and we are responding with great speed and professionalism. Our team is the best anywhere in the world. At the very start of the outbreak, we instituted sweeping travel restrictions on China and put in place the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years. We declared a public health emergency and issued the highest level of travel warning on other countries as the virus spread its horrible infection. And taking early intense action, we have seen dramatically fewer cases of the virus in the United States than are now present in Europe. The European Union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hotspots. As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seeded by travelers from Europe. After consulting with our top government health professionals, I have decided to take several strong but necessary actions to protect the health and wellbeing of all Americans. To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days. The new rules will go into effect Friday at midnight. These restrictions will be adjusted subject to conditions on the ground. There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings, and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval. Anything coming from Europe to the United States is what we are discussing. These restrictions will also not apply to the United Kingdom. At the same time, we are monitoring the situation in China and in South Korea. And, as their situation improves, we will reevaluate the restrictions and warnings that are currently in place for a possible early opening. Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of health insurance industry who have agreed to waive all copayments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments, and to prevent surprise medical billing. We are cutting massive amounts of red tape to make antiviral therapies available in record time. These treatments will significantly reduce the impact and reach of the virus. Additionally, last week, I signed into law an $8.3 billion funding bill to help CDC and other government agencies fight the virus and support vaccines, treatments, and distribution of medical supplies. Testing and testing capabilities are expanding rapidly, day by day. We are moving very quickly. The vast majority of Americans: The risk is very, very low. Young and healthy people can expect to recover fully and quickly if they should get the virus. The highest risk is for elderly population with underlying health conditions. The elderly population must be very, very careful. In particular, we are strongly advising that nursing homes for the elderly suspend all medically unnecessary visits. In general, older Americans should also avoid nonessential travel in crowded areas. My administration is coordinating directly with communities with the largest outbreaks, and we have issued guidance on school closures, social distancing, and reducing large gatherings. Smart action today will prevent the spread of the virus tomorrow. Every community faces different risks and it is critical for you to follow the guidelines of your local officials who are working closely with our federal health experts — and they are the best. For all Americans, it is essential that everyone take extra precautions and practice good hygiene. Each of us has a role to play in defeating this virus. Wash your hands, clean often-used surfaces, cover your face and mouth if you sneeze or cough, and most of all, if you are sick or not feeling well, stay home. To ensure that working Americans impacted by the virus can stay home without fear of financial hardship, I will soon be taking emergency action, which is unprecedented, to provide financial relief. This will be targeted for workers who are ill, quarantined, or caring for others due to coronavirus. I will be asking Congress to take legislative action to extend this relief. Because of the economic policies that we have put into place over the last three years, we have the greatest economy anywhere in the world, by far. Our banks and financial institutions are fully capitalized and incredibly strong. Our unemployment is at a historic low. This vast economic prosperity gives us flexibility, reserves, and resources to handle any threat that comes our way. This is not a financial crisis, this is just a temporary moment of time that we will overcome together as a nation and as a world. However, to provide extra support for American workers, families, and businesses, tonight I am announcing the following additional actions: I am instructing the Small Business Administration to exercise available authority to provide capital and liquidity to firms affected by the coronavirus. Effective immediately, the SBA will begin providing economic loans in affected states and territories. These low-interest loans will help small businesses overcome temporary economic disruptions caused by the virus. To this end, I am asking Congress to increase funding for this program by an additional $50 billion. Using emergency authority, I will be instructing the Treasury Department to defer tax payments, without interest or penalties, for certain individuals and businesses negatively impacted. This action will provide more than $200 billion of additional liquidity to the economy. Finally, I am calling on Congress to provide Americans with immediate payroll tax relief. Hopefully they will consider this very strongly. We are at a critical time in the fight against the virus. We made a life-saving move with early action on China. Now we must take the same action with Europe. We will not delay. I will never hesitate to take any necessary steps to protect the lives, health, and safety of the American people. I will always put the wellbeing of America first. If we are vigilant — and we can reduce the chance of infection, which we will — we will significantly impede the transmission of the virus. The virus will not have a chance against us. No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States. We have the best economy, the most advanced healthcare, and the most talented doctors, scientists, and researchers anywhere in the world. We are all in this together. We must put politics aside, stop the partisanship, and unify together as one nation and one family. As history has proven time and time again, Americans always rise to the challenge and overcome adversity. Our future remains brighter than anyone can imagine. Acting with compassion and love, we will heal the sick, care for those in need, help our fellow citizens, and emerge from this challenge stronger and more unified than ever before. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. And we are having a meeting — a very important meeting — with the, I would say, the greatest bankers in the world, the most important banks in the world, financial centers, and having a good discussion. We’re discussing the economy. We’re discussing how it relates to jobs and all of the things that are happening right now with the virus that we’ve become so familiar with. I’ll be making some decisions. I’ve already made some decisions actually today, but I’ll be making some other ones that are very important. And I thought I’d let the press in to hear some of the wisdom from the folks in the room. And, maybe, Brian, I’ll start with you. And Brian is the chairman and he’s the man at the — at Bank of America. Highly respected. Everybody in this room is at the highest level, highly respected. Brian, please. It’s true. Well, thank you very much, Michael. That’s true. And I think, prior to the coronavirus, it was — it was just all go, and the numbers were fantastic. And we don’t even know what the numbers are now. We’ll have to see. The numbers from a week ago were great and from two days ago were great, but now we’re hitting a patch. And we’re going to have to do something with respect to getting this — getting rid of this virus as quickly as possible and as safely as possible. Our number one — our number one priority is the health of the people of our country. And so we’ll be making, most likely, a statement. I’ll be making a statement later on tonight as to what I’ve decided to do and what our country will be doing. Charlie, please. That’s great. I’m glad you’re saying that. That’s great. Because there may be some of that, frankly, more so than you’ve been used to for the last three years. Right? It could happen. David? I think we’re going to get through it very well. And we’ll be doing a lot of additional work with small business, as you know. We’re going to be adding many billions of dollars, and we’re going to be making lots of small-business loans, and the banks are too. So we’ll be — do you have anything to say about that? Right. Yesterday, as you know, we met with the insurance companies — the top companies, the top people in the top companies, like yourselves — and they were very generous. And you know what they did with co-pays and everything else. They’re going all out. So we appreciated that very much. Steve? Do you have anything to say? Steve? Steve Schwarzman. Yeah, they’ve made very good — yeah, they’ve made very good progress, Steve, at CDC and different places that are dealing with the problem. They’ve made really tremendous — tremendous strides. So we’ll be announcing that also. Okay? Thank you very much. Anybody else have anything to say? Ken? Anybody? Anybody? Thank you. Right. True. Great job you’ve done too. Please. And how is — how is Jamie doing? Say hello to him. All right? I hear he’s doing fine. Good. That’s great. I think there will be a pent-up demand when this is gone. I think that everything that maybe was tamped down now — people aren’t leaving their homes — — I think you’re going to see a tremendous pent-up demand, which hopefully won’t be in the too-distant future. Please. Great, Richard. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anybody else? Anybody? Please. Right. Great. Thank you. Right. That’s great. Thank you very much. And thank you all. Yes, please. Yes. Right. Thank you very much, Kelly. Great. Thank you very much. So I’ll be making a statement tonight, probably at 8 o’clock, and we’ll be starting some additional solutions. We made a great decision on China and Asia, and they’re healing and they’re healing at a pretty good rate. Happy about that. And we could start to think about getting back involved in that part of the world. And, as you know, we have another part of the world — Europe — that’s in very tough shape. It’s having a hard time right now with the virus. And we’ll be making various decisions. You’ll be hearing about them at approximately 8 o’clock tonight. Steve? Well, I’ll be — I’ll be letting you know that a little bit later. We’ll be talking about that later. All those things we’re making a decision on. I think they’re going to be great. I think the folks around this table are the ones that finance them. And they understand. And they’re great companies, but we’re having to fix a problem that, four weeks ago, nobody ever thought would be a problem. Nobody — you read about them. You read about them from 1917 and you read about them from lots of other times. But nobody thought that we would seeing — we were just discussing that. This came out of nowhere. And it actually came out of China, which is the way it works. But we are going to get the problem solved. The country is so strong. The institutions are so strong. You know, in the past, you had problems with institutions. These are powerful institutions. They’re built up. They’re ready to go. And I know they’ll be helping their customers during this short-term period. We think it’s going to be a short-term period. I don’t mind that. I mean, it’s actually a very good question. I was going to ask it myself. You’ve been hearing about the various forms, Brian, of stimulus — different — very different form of stimulus. What would you say would be good — appropriate under these circumstances? That solves all the problems. That’s right. If we get rid of the problem quickly, everything solves itself. We don’t need stimulus. So that’d be good. But we are talking about various forms of stimulus. What would you think, Michael? Right. Great. Thank you very much. Ken, go ahead. Right. I agree with that 100 percent. Anybody? Anybody? Kelly? I think so. I think the payroll tax would be great. Democrats are not in favor of it. I’m trying to figure out why, because it would be something that would be very good for the — the citizens, for the people, and even in longer term for the country. So that’s a tax that people have long been talking about either cutting or getting rid of entirely. So, Steve, what do you have? Okay. Thank you very much. That’s CNN. Fake news. Go ahead. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Eight o’clock tonight. Eight o’clock tonight. You’ll be notified very shortly, but around here. Within — within 50 feet. Both. Well, thank you very much and good afternoon. The First Lady and I — please — are delighted to welcome you all to the White House for this very special occasion — and that it is. Today, it is my great privilege to present our nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, to a courageous warrior and fearless patriot: General Jack Keane. Thank you. We are excited to have Jack’s wife Angela with us today, along with his brother Ronald and son Daniel. Thank you all very much. That’s great. And thank you. We are also joined by a very distinguished assembly of leaders, including: Secretary Mike Pompeo — Mike, thank you very much; Secretary Mark Esper; Attorney General William Barr; Secretary Dan Brouillette; Senator Lindsey Graham — Lindsey; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley — great job, Mark; and General Keith Alexander. Okay? Thank you very much. Thank you all. Jack Keane was born in 1943 into a family with a strong tradition of military service. His father served during World War Two as a Marine in the Pacific theater. Jack grew up in a housing project on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and became the first member of his family to attend college. At Fordham University, he joined the ROTC, distinguishing himself as a cadet and a member of the famed Pershing Rifles. Upon graduating, Jack was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army. He volunteered to serve in Vietnam and joined the legendary 101st Airborne Division. As a platoon leader and later company commander, Jack fought through fierce and bloody combat. He demonstrated unflinching courage under fire. And for his exceptional valor, Jack was awarded the Silver Star. After Vietnam, Jack and his late wife Terry adopted two wonderful sons. They raised Daniel and their late son Matthew with extraordinary love and care. In the Army, Jack designed new training methods to ensure that military leaders would always be extremely well prepared for the intensity of combat command. His rigor, discipline, creativity, toughness — they all achieved tremendous results. General William DePew, who helped rebuild the American military after Vietnam, wrote that Jack was the best brigade commander that he’s ever had. He was very exceptional at all levels. In 1991, Jack became a brigadier general and commander of the Joint Readiness Training Center. He devised a state-of-the-art program that prepared our nation’s service members for combat against extended insurgencies in both urban environment and rugged terrain. Jack prepared this nation for the wars to come and helped train soldiers that would later serve in Bosnia, Somalia, Haiti, and Kosovo. Jack was named a Vice Chief of Staff of the Army in 1999. Was in his office on September 11, 2001, when terrorists struck the Pentagon. He ran through smoke and debris, and evacuated the injured, saving lives. He visited the wounded in hospitals and attended scores of funerals for the fallen patriots slain in the attack. Jack soon helped oversee the additional military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It was the first senior military official to visit troops in the field. In 2003, he was offered the position of Army Chief of Staff, but in a profound act of devotion, he turned down the position and left the Army, after nearly 38 years, to care for his wife Terry, who had developed Parkinson’s disease. In 2006, Jack helped engineer “the Surge” that stabilized the deteriorating situation in Iraq and allowed Iraqis to finally take charge of their own future. In the years since, Jack has continued to offer his sage counsel to military and policy leaders, and to visit our troops on the frontiers. And Jack, I have to say, has given me a lot of good advice too. He’s been called a “national treasure” by Henry Kissinger and is a recipient of the Bradley Prize and the Ronald Reagan Peace Through Strength Award. Jack Keane is a visionary, a brilliant strategist, and an American hero. General, you will be remembered as one of the finest and most dedicated soldiers in a long and storied history of the United States military. No question about it. Congratulations again to you and your family. I would now like to ask the military aide to come forward and present General Jack Keane with the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Thank you. Well, I was just with the Republican senators, and there was — they were just about all there, mostly all there — and there’s a great feeling about doing a lot of things. And that’s one of the things we talked about. Well, we’re going to see. They came in very chopped up. A lot of them are things that she wanted to get for other things, and we’re looking at the people. We’re looking at solving this problem. Also, some very good numbers coming out of some countries where it started earlier. And we’re seeing some fairly good numbers come out of those countries — that’s a good thing — including China. And they’ve released numbers, and we’ve gotten some numbers from China that look pretty promising. So we’ll be able to further report. Please. Well, I don’t think it’s a big deal. I would do it. I don’t feel that — any reason. I feel extremely good. I feel very good. But I guess it’s not a big deal to get tested. And it’s something I would do. But again, I spoke to the White House doctor — terrific guy, talented guy — he said he sees no reason to do it. There’s no symptoms, no anything. And you know what? If there were, you people would be the first to know it. You would — you would maybe even tell me about it. Yes, please. I’ve been briefed on every contingency you can possibly imagine. Many contingencies. A lot of — — a lot of positive. Different numbers. All different numbers. Very large numbers. And some small numbers too, by the way. Look, right now, I guess we’re at 26 deaths, and if you look at the flu — the flu, for this year — we’re at 8 mil- — we’re looking at 8,000 deaths. And, you know, hundreds of thousands of cases, but we have 8,000 deaths. So you have 8,000 versus 26 deaths, at this time. With all of that being said, we’re taking this unbelievably seriously, and I think we’re doing a really good job. And, again, the task force, headed up by the Vice President, has been fantastic. No, I think the U.S. has done a very good job on testing. We had to change things that were done, that were nobody’s fault. Perhaps they wanted to do something a different way, but it was a much slower process from a previous administration. And we did change them. We made the changes. But the testing has gone very well. And when people need a test, they can get a test. When the professionals need a test, when they need tests for people, they can get the test. It’s gone really well. Look, the biggest thing that we did was stopping the inflow of people early on, and that was weeks ahead of schedule, weeks ahead of what other people would have done. In fact, other people, mostly, would probably not have done it even until now. And that’s made a big difference. For what? No, I think the people are doing a fantastic job. In fact, just today — I have it inside — Governor Newsom, Gavin Newsom of California, said tremendous — there’s an article that just came out; I had it inside and I showed it to the senators, and I showed them other articles too — where governors — Democrat governors are saying we’ve done a fantastic job. Gavin Newsom said there’s not a thing that he’s asked for that we weren’t able to get him. And, you know, he’s been — he’s a critical guy, like we all are. But it was a very positive statement. Many Democrat governors have said that the task force and the federal government, what we’ve done, has been terrific. Well, this was unexpected. This was something that came out of China, and it hit us and many other countries. You look at the numbers; I see the numbers with just by watching you folks. I see it — it’s over 100 different countries. And it hit the world. And we’re prepared, and we’re doing a great job with it. And it will go away. Just stay calm. It will go away. We want to protect our shipping industry, our cruise industry, cruise ships. We want to protect our airline industry — very important. But everybody has to be vigilant and has to be careful. But be calm. It’s really working out. And a lot of good things are going to happen. The consumer is ready, and the consumer is so powerful in our country with what we’ve done with tax cuts and regulation cuts and all of those things. The consumer has never been in a better position than they are right now. So a lot of good things are going to happen. Thank you very much, everybody. Well, thank you very much. We’re meeting with the top executives of the health insurance companies, the biggest companies in our country — probably the biggest companies in our country, probably the biggest companies in the world. I can’t imagine being much bigger. But these are the great — the great health insurance companies. And I think tremendous progress is being made. They’re willing to do things for the people and their customers and probably, in a true sense, beyond their customers that normally I don’t think they’d be doing. And so I want to thank them, and I’ll ask Vice President Pence to maybe give us a little update as to where we are. It’s true. Very true. And we are working very closely with the cruise line industry and — very, very closely. They’re taking very strong steps in terms of people going on and going off. But they’re spending a lot of money and they are working very hard. And we’re work — we’re going to be helping that industry. Likewise, with the airline industry, they’re taking very, very strong steps for people coming into our country, even getting off the planes. So we are working very closely with them. We’re helping them. They’re two great industries, and we’ll be helping them through this patch. And, so far, I think it’s been going very well. You know all about the big ship that came in yesterday. And that’s going along incredibly well. We’re working with the state of California successfully — very successfully — and also with Canada and with the UK. So, the UK is taking their people, their citizens back, and Canada is about 600 people; they’re coming back. They’re being met and brought to planes and being brought very, very — in a very, very dignified fashion back into Canada. So we appreciate all of the help we’ve had in that. And that’s working out very well. With that, I might just ask a couple of folks, if you’d like to make a statement on behalf of the industry, perhaps we’ll — would you like to make a statement on behalf of the industry? Thank you, Gail. Great job you’re doing. Thank you very much. Anybody else? Would anybody else like to make a statement? Even the ones over here. You’re going to turn your head? Look at those cameras. Yes. Right. Very good. Thank you very much. Please. That’s great. Thank you. Thank you all. Please. Right. And a lot of people now are taking advantage of that — really, strong advantage. Who else would you suggest? Dave? Please. Right. Okay, thank you. And, Governor? Pete Ricketts. Nebraska, everybody. Nice to see you, by the way. Thank you. Right. Great. Thanks. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Yeah. I am. About 12:30. Thank you very much. We just attended a very important task force meeting on the virus that everybody is talking about all over the world. No matter where you go, that’s what’s on people’s minds. And we are going to take care of, and have been taking care of, the American public and the American economy. We are going to be asking tomorrow — we’re seeing the Senate. We’re going to be meeting with House Republicans — Mitch McConnell, everybody — and discussing a possible payroll tax cut or relief, substantial relief — very substantial relief. That’s a big — that’s a big number. We’re also going to be talking about hourly wage earners getting help so that they can be in a position where they’re not going to ever miss a paycheck. We’re going to be working with companies and small companies, large companies — a lot of companies — so that they don’t get penalized for something that’s not their fault. It’s not their fault, it’s not our country’s fault. This was something that we were thrown into and we’re going to handle it, and we have been handling it very well. The big decision was early when we shut down our borders. We’re the first ones ever to do that. We’ve never done that in our country before. Or we’d have a situation that would be a lot more dire. Also, we’re going to be seeing Small Business Administration and creating loans for small businesses. We’re also working with the industries, including the airline industry, the cruise ship industry — which, obviously, will be hit. We’re working with them very, very strongly. We want them to travel. We want people to travel to certain locations and not to other locations at this moment. And hopefully that will straighten out sooner rather than later. But we’re working with the industries, and in particular those two industries. We’re also talking to the hotel industry. And some places, actually, will do well, and some places probably won’t do well at all. But we’re working also with the hotel industry. But the main thing is that we’re taking care of the American public, and we will be taking care of the American public. And I really appreciate the professionals behind me and the professionals actually behind them, in a different room. We have a tremendous team, and it’s headed up by our great Vice President, Mike Pence. And I want to thank Mike because he’s been working 24 hours a day, just about. He has been working very, very hard, very diligently, and very professionally. And I want to thank him, and I want to thank the team. And I’ll have Mike say a few words. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mike? Please. Well, I think what we will be doing is having a news conference tomorrow to talk about various things that we’re doing economically — there’ll be very major — including, obviously, the payroll tax cut. And so we’ll be meeting again tomorrow afternoon. We’ll be coming back from the Senate, and we have a lot of very important meetings set up. And we’ll have a press conference sometime after that, and we’ll explain what we’re doing on an economic standpoint and from an economic standpoint. But they will be very — very dramatic. And we have a great economy, we have a very strong economy, but this came — this blindsided the world. And I think we’ve handled it very, very well. I think they’ve done a great job. The people behind me have done a great job. So I will be here tomorrow afternoon to let you know about some of the economic steps we’re taking, which will be major. Thank you very much. Hello, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. He’s doing a fantastic job. A great job. Brazil loves him and the USA loves him. Great job. Thank you very much. We have a very good relationship as to tariffs. And we helped Brazil and we want to always help Brazil. And the friendship is probably stronger now than it’s ever been. I don’t want to make any promises. No promises. Well, we’ll have tremendous rallies. And we’re doing very well. And we’ve done a fantastic job with respect to that subject on the virus. Yeah. We’ve had tremendous cooperation with other countries and all over the world. And we’ve made it very, very tough. Very strong. Very stringent borders. Say it. What? No, I’m not concerned at all. No, I’m not. No, we’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. I said, “I’d like to walk the press down the hall to see how professional this is.” It’s incredible. If you people would like, we would do that. Are they able to do that, Doctor? Can they do that? Yes. Yes. Why don’t you tell them a little bit about what you’re doing and how it’s going? And here they are, right over there. They’re actually very nice people. But they’re told not be by the editors. Dr. Monroe is a tremendously talented man. They’ve done tremendous work here. Doctor, please. Can you hear that okay? Can we go over there? This is Dr. Monroe, everybody. If you could maybe go through that, Doctor. This is a little more comfortable, right? Does everybody understand that? Yeah, sure. Just one second. Let him finish up. So tell them about how you’ve done with the tests over 4 million. They have plenty of materials is what you’re saying. And they have had. Doctor, do you want to make a little statement, here? Thank you. I appreciate it. And the whole situation is — the testing has been amazing, actually. What they’ve been able to produce in such a short period of time. You had mentioned 4 million tests before — 4 million? What — what number will it be? And they started working when they saw there was a problem in China. That was many weeks ago. So they saw there was something going on in China long before anybody even heard of it. That was actually before it was even in the print. They heard there was a problem in China. That’s when they started working on this, and that’s pretty incredible. That’s why we’re in good shape. Go ahead. And now it’s all performing perfectly, right? Just so you understand, now it’s all performing perfectly. They’re fantastic people. These are fantastic people. No, it’s performing very well, and it has been performing very well. And as you said, you had two of the three that worked perfectly. And that’s all you need is two of the three. In fact, you could have one of the three and it will work. So he had two of the three, but now it’s performing perfectly in all places. I do think — I do think what’s happening, though, is you have people that are sick, but they don’t go to the hospital or they’re not very sick; it’s a more minor case and it could be of this virus. But you have a lot of people that aren’t going to the hospitals. So we’re not seeing those people. And if you did see those people, I believe — if you did see those people — the statistics actually become much better, because they heal, they get better, they don’t see a doctor, they don’t see a hospital, they have a problem, they have the sniffles or a cold or all — you know, some of the symptoms. And over a period of time, a short period of time or even longer period of time, they get better. If you look at that, then all of a sudden you’re coming into a much lower category of risk in terms of death-type risk. Because I think a lot of people aren’t going to doctors. A lot of people aren’t going to hospitals. And so you’re not seeing those people. Well, we’re considering different things. But we’re also considering the fact that last year we had approximately 36,000 deaths due to what’s called the flu. And I was — when I first heard this four, five, six weeks ago — when I was hearing the amount of people that died with flu, I was shocked to hear it. Anywhere from 27,000 to 70,000 or 77,000. And I guess they said, in 1990, that was in particular very bad; it was higher than that. As of the time I left the plane with you, we had 240 cases. That’s at least what was on a very fine network known as Fox News. And you love it. But that’s what I happened to be watching. And how was the show last night? Did it get good ratings, by the way? Oh, really? I heard it broke all ratings records, but maybe that’s wrong. That’s what they told me. I don’t know. I can’t imagine that. But what happened is, if you look at the number at the time we left, it was 240 cases, Peter, and 11 deaths. That’s what it has been. Now, you look at — throughout the world, I mean, other countries have — South Korea, Italy, and in particular China have many. Now I also hear the numbers are getting much better in those places. And I’ve heard the numbers are getting much better in China, but I hear the numbers are getting much better in Italy, et cetera, et cetera. But what I hear — so we have 240 cases, 11 deaths. Everything is too much and it’s true. I don’t want 11 deaths. I don’t want any deaths, right? But over the last long period of time, when people have the flu, you have an average of 36,000 people dying. I’ve never heard those numbers. I would — I would’ve been shocked. I would’ve said, “Does anybody die from the flu?” I didn’t know people died from the flu — 36,000 people died. Twenty-seven thousand to seventy-seven thousand, that’s your flu. And again, you had a couple of years it was over 100,000 people died from the flu. So I start to say, “I wonder what’s going on here.” Now, you look at the percentage: The percentage for the flu is under 1 percent. But this could also be under 1 percent because many of the people that aren’t that sick don’t report. So they’re not putting those people in there. And you’re smiling when I say that. Who are you from, by the way? I really don’t — I don’t watch it. I don’t watch CNN because CNN is fake news. Go ahead. Of course it’s an effect. I mean, it is effect — now, you know, if you know anything about me, I like when people happen to stay in the United States and spend their money in the United States. Okay? So I think people are staying in the United States more. They’re going to spend their money in the United States. And then this is ended. It will end. People have to remain calm. I do think that if you look at the numbers and you look at the numbers from other years on other things, and you look at these numbers, it’ll be interesting to see what you find. And statistics will soon be coming out. But there was a big statistic today that it’s way under 1 percent. They said one tenth of 1 percent in one case. But nobody really knows. We’ll be able to find out. The problem is the people that get better, that don’t see a doctor, don’t go to a hospital, those people get better. If they were in the numbers, the numbers would look much better in terms of death rate. Oh, I think you’ll have other things that are — the amazing thing — look at the job numbers today. We had a tremendous job number today. We had a number today that, when you add last month’s number, which was a correction of plus-80,000 jobs — wasn’t it a 350,000 jobs number today? That was shocking. I was watching a particular network and they said on the net- — that — but they’re pros. They said, “Wow, these are unbelievable numbers.” They were shocked by the numbers — over 350,000, when you add last month’s correction. Peter? I think it’s fine if they want to do it. I don’t think it’s an overreaction, but I wouldn’t be generally inclined to do it. I really wouldn’t be. Now, it depends in what country you’re talking about. If you’re talking about — if they’re going through another country or are you talking about within the United States? Yeah, I — I mean, they have to feel comfortable. People have to feel comfortable to have a good time. If you look at — do I want to go to China? Do I want to go to certain parts of Italy? Do I want to go to South Korea right now? You know, that’s a different decision. But you have some parts of the world that — some parts — many — most parts of the country — look, in this big, vast land of ours, this great country of ours, we have 240 cases. Most of those people are going to be fine. A vast majority are going to be fine. We’ve had 11 deaths, and they’ve been largely old people who are — who were susceptible to what’s happening. Now, that would be the case, I assume, with a regular flu too. If somebody is old and in a weakened state or ill, they’re susceptible to the common flu too. You know, they were telling me just now that the common flu kills people and old people is sort of a target. And the young. Now, the interesting thing here — it’s very interesting. The interesting thing here is that the young seem to be doing unbelievably well — actually better than they do with the flu. Young people and very young people are doing very well, which is another thing, I guess, they’re trying to figure out. Not at all. No, not at all. Not at all. You know, I’m a person that was never big on the hand-shaking deal throughout my life. They used to criticize me for it or laugh about it or have fun with it. But if you’re a politician — like, I walk in, and the doctors have their hands out — “Hello, sir. How are you?” I — if you don’t shake hands, they’re not going to like you too much. And I guess that’s my business; I never thought I’d be a politician. I guess, I’m a politician. But the fact is I feel very secure. I feel very secure. I was told that one person, maybe, that works someplace in the building, at I’m not even sure what level — but that one person may have had the virus. And therefore, they said, “Sir, because of the fact that one person may have had the…” Because this is a big building with a lot of great scientists, frankly. One person had the virus. And that turned out to be a negative report. That turned out to be negative. And so they called me. But it was already cancelled. But this morning, I said, “Wait a minute.” I’m going to Tennessee. We’re going down to Florida. I have a meeting on Monday, as you know. And so we’re going to Florida. I’d love to stop at the CDC. That was a big deal with Secret Service, but they’re fantastic and they worked it out. So we stopped. But it was a report and the person — it was a negative diagnosis. No, we had another big deal. There were two of them. And there was a thing that we recommended, because there’s a lot of people. And we recommended that if they want, let them cancel that one. But there was another one in a similar area. No, I haven’t. Well, I’ll tell you what: I haven’t had any problems filling them. I mean, we just had one in North Carolina, South Carolina — all over the place. And we have tens of thousands of people standing outside the arena. So, we haven’t had — It doesn’t bother me at all and it doesn’t bother them at all. Well, that’s a big question. So I was just on the phone with the Vice President, and they’re trying to make a decision. I mean, frankly, if it were up to me, I would be inclined to say, “Leave everybody on the ship for a period of time, and use the ship as your base.” But a lot of people would rather do it a different way. They would rather quarantine people when they land. Now, when they do that, our numbers are going to go up. Okay? Our numbers are going to go up. The 240 is going to go up. And I assume that, perhaps, you know — it’s a very big ship with thousands of people on it, including the sailors and the crew. It’s — you’re talking about a massive number of people. That is a big ship. If it were up to me, I would do it that way. A lot of people think we should do it the other way. They’re Americans, or mostly Americans. And we have to take care of Americans. Bring them off the ship. No, they’ll be under quarantine, and they’ll be tested very carefully. Everyone is tested very carefully. Somebody said today — in fact, the Governor said a story that a friend of yours — you know Governor Kemp? A friend of yours was saying how tough it is to get into the United States with all the testing. Maybe you’d like to say? But he was very impressed with how hard it is to get on the plane. He was tested two times — and then one person said three times — just to come in. I mean, we’re watching it very closely. The people are doing a good job. And instead of being negative, you should be positive. These scientists are doing a phenomenal job with something that came from out of nowhere a very short time ago. That’s all right. That’s all right. Anybody that wants a test can get a test. That’s what the bottom line is. But — but I think — I think, importantly: Anybody right now and yesterday — anybody that needs a test gets a test. We — they’re there. They have the tests. And the tests are beautiful. Anybody that needs a test gets a test. If there’s a doctor that wants to test, if there’s somebody coming off a ship — like the big monster ship that’s out there right now, which, you know — again, that’s a big decision. Do I want to bring all those people on? People would like me to do that. I don’t like the idea of doing it. But anybody that needs a test can have a test. They’re all set. They have them out there. In addition to that, they’re making millions of more as we speak. But as of right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test — that’s the important thing — and the tests are all perfect, like the letter was perfect. The transcription was perfect, right? This was not as perfect as that, but pretty good. We’re handling it from South Korea. We’re testing that you can’t come in from South Korea unless they go through it. I’d have to ask the doctors. And this is, by the way, the highest level test. This is the highest level test anywhere. Ah, that’s a very good question. From my — Yes. From my standpoint, I want to rely on people. I have great experts, including our Vice President, who is working 24 hours a day on this stuff. They would like to have the people come off. I’d rather have the people stay, but I’d go with them. I told them to make the final decision. I would rather — because I like the numbers being where they are. I don’t need to have the numbers double because of one ship. That wasn’t our fault, and it wasn’t the fault of the people on the ship, either. Okay? It wasn’t their fault either. And they’re mostly Americans, so I can live either way with it. I’d rather have them stay on, personally. But I fully understand if they want to take them off. I gave them the authority to make the decision. No. No. No. I’m saying whatever it is that takes precedence over the numbers. No, I like the numbers. I would rather have the numbers stay where they are. But if they want to take them off, they’ll take them off. But if that happens, all of a sudden your 240 is obviously going to be a much higher number, and probably the 11 will be a higher number too. There’s probably risk to both. Probably risk to both. You know, ah — We’re working very closely with South Korea. Yeah. Well, we’re working closely with South Korea. They’re also in a much different position. They have a lot of people that are infected; we don’t. They’re in a much different position. But we are working very closely with South Korea. As you know, we’re allies. Even though they’ve made much better trade deals in the past than we did, we’re allies with South Korea. You have heard that, right? And we’re working very closely with South Korea. And a lot of the testing — a lot of the testing is very similar testing. But they’re in a much different position than — they have thousands of people. And they’re in a — you know, they’ve got some difficulty right now. But we’re working very closely. In fact, they’re calling us, asking us and these people for advice. And don’t forget, these are the people — like as an example: HIV. I talk about it in the — in speeches and other things. HIV-free — or essentially free — within nine years now. It’s a 10-year process. These are the people that came up with the answers to the stuff that three years ago, four years ago, you would have said it’s impossible. What they’ve done is incredible — and to others also. If you look at what they’ve done with HIV, it’s incredible. Other countries are all calling the same people that you’re dealing with. And honestly, what you should be doing is giving them a lot of credit because this was a very condensed period of time. Even the vaccine, they’re going to have tests done in 90 days that other people wouldn’t have — that, two years ago, you were taking two years to do. And they’re making great progress. It takes a period of time, but they’re making great progress. Other countries are dealing with the same people you’re talking to now, and others in this government universe. They’re incredible people. And honestly, you should be giving them tremendous credit. They’ve done a tremendous job. When you mention South Korea, they’re dealing with us all the time. When you mention Italy, they’re dealing with us all the time. We’re working together with China. We’re working together with everybody. But these are great people. These are incredible people. And you shouldn’t be knocking them; you should be praising them. They have done an incredible job already. I just think this is something, Peter, that you can never really think is going to happen. You know, who — I’ve heard all about, “This could be…” — you know, “This could be a big deal,” from before it happened. You know, this — something like this could happen. I think we’re doing a really good job in this country at keeping it down. We’ve really been very vigilant, and we’ve done a tremendous job at keeping to down. But who would have thought? Look, how long ago is it? Six, seven, eight weeks ago — who would have thought we would even be having the subject? We were going to hit 30,000 on the Dow like it was clockwork. Right? It was all going — it was right up, and then all of a sudden, this came out. And all I say is, “Be calm.” We have the greatest people in the world. Everyone is relying on us. The world is relying on us. They’ve done an incredible job in a very condensed period of time. And the thing is, you never really know when something like this is going to strike and what it’s going to be. This is different than something else. This is a very different thing than something else. So I think they’ve done a great job. And you know what? If I didn’t think they did, I’d tell you. Well, I just don’t think — I just don’t think that somebody is going to — without seeing something, like we saw something happening in China. As soon as they saw that happening, they essentially — not from the White House. I mean, you know, we don’t need a lab in the White House. But they saw something happening. I found it very interesting. They spotted something going on in China. When you see these labs that I just saw — and I would love to have them see it if it’s possible — but they spotted something going on in China. They started working on it immediately just in case it should come here, and also to help China. I mean, if we could find something that’s beneficial, we want to give it to China like they’re going to want to give it to us. China is working very closely with us — South Korea, Italy, all of them. They’ve been working very closely. But we’re doing — you know, again, 240 and 11. That’s where we are right now. We don’t have a forecast because we don’t know. We don’t know how many people are — you know, have this, aren’t going to see a doctor, aren’t going to see a hospital. And the higher that number is, the better the numbers from the standpoint of death — the death count. They get better without seeing doctors, without seeing hospitals. So nobody is marking it down. And I think the number is very high. I think that number is much higher, but it never gets reported because they’re not going to hospitals or doctors. The ones that get reported are people that are really sick enough to go to a hospital or to a doctor. So it makes the numbers look worse. Well, we’re prepared for anything. We’re prepared. We are, really, very highly prepared for anything. And in a short period of time — I mean, what they’ve done is very incredible. And I’ve seen what they’ve done back there. It’s really incredible. And, by the way, NIH, what they’ve done — I spent time over there — and I like this stuff. You know, my uncle was a great person. He was at MIT. He taught at MIT for, I think, like a record number of years. He was a great super genius. Dr. John Trump. I like this stuff. I really get it. People are surprised that I understand it. Every one of these doctors said, “How do you know so much about this?” Maybe I have a natural ability. Maybe I should have done that instead of running for President. But you know what? What they’ve done is very incredible. I understand that whole world. I love that world. I really do. I love that world. And they should be given tremendous credit. And the whole world is relying on us. You know, you hear about — like you’re saying about South Korea. South Korea is very much reliant on the information we’re giving them. And they’re reliant on the vaccines that we will come up with. Very soon, we’re going to come up. Now it take a bit of time to get them tested and then put into the . It has to be very safe. You can’t give a vaccine that’s going to be unsafe. It would be a disaster. So that’s where we are. And I think these people deserve — all of them, scientists and doctors — I think they deserve tremendous credit. I really do. He did. Yeah. So I told Mike not to be complimentary to the governor because that governor is a snake. Okay? Inslee. And I said, “If you’re nice to him, he’s — he will take advantage.” And I would have said “no.” Let me just tell you, we have a lot of problems with the governor and — the governor of Washington. That’s where you have many of your problems. Okay? So Mike may be happy with him, but I’m not. Okay? And he would say that naturally. And as I said last night at the town hall, if we came up with a cure today, and tomorrow everything is gone, and you went up to this governor — who is a, you know, not a good governor, by the way — if you went up to this governor, and you said to him, “How did Trump do?” –he’d say, “He did a terrible job.” It makes no difference. If we came up with it right now, and tomorrow everything ended, at 8 o’clock tomorrow morning — everything ended — he would say, “Trump did a horrible job.” Okay? And I told Mike that would happen. I said, “No matter how nice you are, he’s no good.” That’s the way I feel. Goodbye. Good luck to CNN. Well, they’re not testing. They’re sampling people in other countries. No, no — excuse me, there’s a difference. I heard what he said. They’re sampling people. It’s a drive-by. They give samples. Now, can we do that? Yeah, we can do that, but that’s not effective like what we’re doing. We’re doing the whole thing in one — in one stop. They’re doing samples in South Korea. It’s a very different thing. Go ahead. Would you like to say something? So the difference is that they’re doing — they’re being proactive. We are being proactive. We’re going out and looking for spots. Nobody else is doing that — not by leaving samples or anything else. We’re going out and proactively looking to see where there’s a problem. We don’t have to do that, but we’re doing it to see if we can find areas which are trouble spots. I even — don’t even know if I agree with that. You’ll find out those areas just by sitting back and waiting. But they’re trying to find out before — before you would normally find out by waiting. And, you know, I think that’s great. But that’s what they’re doing. They’re the only — we’re the only country, in that sense, that’s proactive. We’re totally proactive and we’re totally equipped to handle it. Okay? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This is Governor Bill Lee, and he’s done a fantastic job of working with FEMA and the federal government and state government and everybody, Bill. And this is real devastation like you’ll never seen, hopefully, again. This was about as big a tornado as you can have. It was 50 miles long, which is extraordinarily long, and a very wide one. And you see what’s happened. We saw it from the helicopter very well. You did too. I just want to thank you very much for the great job you’re doing. They do. They do. Thank you. Would you like to say something? Please. They’re great people. It’s a great state. And what is the final count of death in the state itself? The entire state. Well, thank you very much. We’re going to see some of the people that really survived, some not in good shape and some in very good shape — incredibly in good shape. But anybody in these homes — this is a swath that it went right through, on this side — on this side of the street. And obviously, anybody in these homes, for the most part, they were killed. Given very little warning. They get a phone call, “Hey, there’s a tornado,” and boom, it’s on them. They just — they just appeared. And it’s — we’re working very hard. FEMA is doing a great job. They were told to do the absolute best. Thank you very much. Do you have any questions? Well, I do have a message, and I have a message for the families of those that lost their lives: We love them; they’re special people. It’s an incredible place, an incredible state. Tremendous heart. Already, you see people rebuilding. I mean, it took place literally hours ago — a couple of days — and they’re already rebuilding. I’ve never seen — we were flying over; you see the blue roofs going up. It’s all over the place. It’s just great people. It’s a great state. And they have great leadership in this state, and that’s why it’s working out like it is. But still, 25 people, at least, and some really very badly hurt. Very, very badly hurt. The mayor was telling me some of the houses came down and they got here right after that happened, and the people are walking out of the houses and — you might explain that, what that looked like. They didn’t know what happened. They just — all of a sudden, they’re watching television or something and, all of a sudden, they’re outside, walking on the street. There was one young boy, I heard he was taken out of the house and — A couple of blocks away. Thank you very much. Yeah. We’re doing it and we’re doing it now. We’re going to also, I think, stop at the church where there are a lot of people huddled up in the church. It’s a cold day and they’re all huddled up. We’re going to the church also. We’re seeing some of the people over here. We’re looking at different options. Different options. We did get tremendous job numbers this morning. They were — you know, if you add the 80,000 to the 270 — you know, they were talking in the 350,000 range. But right now, that’s not something we want to be talking about. Okay? Thank you. Yeah. Very quickly. Almost momentarily. I did it. The mayor called me. The Governor called me. We had calls from a lot of people. That was an immediate emergency. But we’ve spoken — we approved it within minutes of the call. To be determined. What they need — we’re going to take care of what they need. Much of that money goes to help the people that got just wiped out. They’re wiped out. They have nothing. And — and many people died. Well, I love them. I love them very much. That’s why I’m here. Some people wouldn’t be here. There was no way that I wasn’t going to stop here first. And I was going to do it yesterday, but they asked me for one more day because they — they were looking for — they were looking for bodies, believe it or not, up until just now. They now — they’ve pretty much covered everything. But — and just God be with them. And we’re going to be with them. We’re going to be with them all the way. And I can tell you, the Governor feels the same as I do. And the mayors — I just want to congratulate you, because the job you’ve done, everybody is talking about it. They haven’t slept in 48 hours. Neither have you, come to think of it. So we’re going to go see the people now and say hello to them and do whatever you can do. It’s tough. A lot of them have lost people within the family. One family got entirely wiped out. There was one case, though — I heard a young man was — an 8-year-old boy was ripped out, flown to a certain area, and dropped off at the street two or three blocks away. And they found him walking. And he said, “I just flew in the air.” And he was walking down the street two blocks away from his home. And how did his parents do? Do you know? They were deceased? They were dead. So it took him and he said, “I was carried by the air, away from my house.” He came back. But his — He was over there. And his parents were killed. And his sister. So we’re going to go see some of the folks. Incredible. The people are incredible. We spoke — what they’ve done with the first responding and all of the care — emergency, fire, every aspect of it. The law enforcement was really not law enforcement. They just went out, and they went out and did a great job of safety. Because you have such a great people here, you don’t have to worry about the law enforcement; you have to worry about just helping them. And you did it. You did a fantastic job. I want to thank you for that. What a job you did. We’re all talking about it too. So I hope they talk about it because you deserve it. Thank you all. We’re going to make a couple of other stops. We’re going to CDC later on, but this is inspiring to see the way it all came together. Even all of this — Churches of Christ — tremendous amounts of food and goods, and it all came within a matter of hours. So it’s a case study — a case study of what should be done and how it can be done. It’s Tennessee. It is indeed the Volunteer State. Thank you all very much. Great job. Good morning, everybody. Good morning. I’m going to Tennessee to meet with the governor and a lot of people. And it’s something. It’s really something. I guess some of you are coming along, I assume. Is that right? You going? Okay. So we’re signing the $8.3 billion. I asked for 2.5 and I got 8.3, and I’ll take it. Okay? So here we are, $8.3 billion. We’re doing very well. But it’s an unforeseen problem. What a problem. Came out of nowhere, but we’re taking care of it. We have big news on the ship. And a lot of things are happening on the ship. People are being tested right now. And I just spoke to the governor of California, Gavin Newsom. We had a good conversation. We’re both working on the ship together. It’s close to 5,000 people. So, it’s a big ship. But we’re doing testing on those people. Okay? Could I have those others papers I’m going to sign, please? These are additional papers relevant to various things. Okay, this is it? Okay, give me the other one. You — you can tell them. We may — we may go. There was a — they thought there was a problem at CDC with somebody that had the virus. It turned out negative, so we’re seeing if we can do it. But yesterday afternoon, we were informed that there may have been a person with — with the virus, and they now find out that that was a negative test. They’ve tested the person very fully, and it was a negative test. So I may be going. We’re going to see if they can turn it around with Secret Service. Yeah, we may — We may we may be going. Here, Steve, this is for you after covering me so well. It’s the first time I’ve ever done that to a reporter. Well, job numbers just came out and they’re incredible. The job numbers were tremendous. And we picked up close to 80,000 new jobs from the last report. And if you add that up, it’s over 350,000 jobs. The job numbers just came out a little while ago, and they were shocking to the people that were analyzing them. No, I think — I think, you know, a lot of people are staying here and they’re going to be doing their business here. They’re going to be traveling here. And they’ll be going to resorts here. And, you know, we have a great place. That’s where — so, foreign people come, but we’re going to have Americans staying home instead of going and spending the money in other countries. And maybe that’s one of the reasons the job numbers are so good. We’ve had a lot of travel inside the USA. Well, all we can do is do what we do. I mean, we’re getting a lot of business from people staying. In other words, they’re — it’s — I’ve always liked anyway; you’ve known that for a long time. But people are staying here and spending their money here, as opposed to going to Europe and other places. Now, that’ll change when this goes away, and hopefully that will be sooner rather than later. But people were — I would say virtually everybody — you saw the job numbers, I guess — people were shocked, because you add another 80 or whatever it is, a lot of — a lot of numbers from last month, where they upgraded. So the job numbers were at a level that nobody thought possible. They were really incredible. I don’t know. I mean, we’re going to see whether or not the Fed wants to stimulate. In my opinion, they should because Europe is, and China is, and everybody is but us. We have a Fed that is not exactly proactive. I’m being very nice when I say that. I think what happens is the Fed should cut and the Fed should stimulate. And they should do that because other countries are doing it, and it puts us at a competitive disadvantage. And we have the most prime. We are considered by far the most prime. And it’s our dollar that everybody uses. The Fed should stimulate and the Fed — they should cut. And why should Germany have an advantage over us with interest rates? So Germany — you know, Germany, just announced that they’re stimulating and they’re cutting. Asia is. All over Asia they are. China is. China is tremendously. And we’re really not. And we pay higher interest; we have a higher rate. And it’s ridiculous, frankly. We should have the lowest rate by far, and instead we pay more than other countries. Other countries are paying zero and less than zero. You know it very well. And we’re paying interest, which is a very conservative approach, but it’s not a good approach because we’re also competing against other countries, whether we like it or not. Even our friends, we’re competing against. Well, you know, eventually countries have to take care of themselves. We can’t be there for the next — another 20 years. We’ve been there for 20 years, and we’ve been protecting the country. But we can’t be there for the next — eventually, they’re going to have to protect themselves. You know, this should have been done a long time ago. But you can only hold somebody’s hand for so long. We have to get back to running our country too. So you understand that. I’ll let you know later. You know, we’ll have to see what happens. I hope they are, but I don’t know. I can’t answer that question. It’s not supposed to happen that way, but it possibly will. No, no, no. They had one person who was potentially infected. And speaking of that, I’d like to go. So you guys are trying to work that out. I was going to Tennessee first, in any event, and then I was stopping in Atlanta, then going down to Florida for meetings. I think that they are trying to work it out that I do go. No, I hadn’t heard that. I heard “one person.” And because of the one person at a high level — because of the one person, they didn’t want me going. But I would prefer going. And now that the person — the test came out negative, we’re going to try and go. The most powerful man in all of the media. Come on over here, please. He has a little something to do with the Wall Street Journal. I don’t know if you know. This is real power. Right? You used to do what they did. Right? And he did it — he did it so well that he’s the boss at News Corp. Of course, Rupert has something to say with that, I guess. Right? Lachlan. It’s good to have you. It’s good to have you. They treat me very nicely — the media. Right? Except for the Wall Street Journal, but that’s okay. I don’t think they’re panicking. I don’t think people are panicking. I said last night — we did an interview on Fox last night, a town hall. I think it was very good. And I said, “Calm. You have to be calm.” It’ll go away. We do have a situation where we have this massive ship with 5,000 people and we have to make a decision. You know, that’s a big decision because we have very low numbers compared to major countries throughout the world. Our numbers are lower than just about anybody. And in terms of deaths, I don’t know what the count is today. Is it 11? Eleven people? And in terms of cases, it’s very, very few. When you look at other countries, it’s a very tiny fraction because we’ve been very strong at the borders. But then you have a ship with a lot of Americans on it. It’s got 5,000 people on it. It’s a massive ship and — you know, and they want to come in. So we have to make a decision. We’re working with the governor of California on that. Yeah, I am. We’re having dinner at Mar-a-Lago. He wanted to have dinner in Florida, if that was possible — the President of Brazil. So we’ll be doing that today. I think financial markets will bounce back as soon as this — really bounce back. Don’t forget, they’re down probably 10 or 11 percent from, you know, where they were, but they were up 70 percent. So, you know, it’s only a — it’s a relatively small piece. I don’t like to see it happen because I was looking for 30,000 very soon. You were — you were — it seemed days away from 30,000. And now we have a little more room to make up. But I think financially — I think the country is so strong. We’re so strong as a country now. We have never been like this. The consumer is generating so much because of the tax cuts, the regulation cuts, and, you know, the things we’ve done. So I think we’re in great shape. I mean, I think we’re in great shape. This came unexpectedly a number of months ago. I heard about it in China. It came out of China, and I heard about it. And made a good move: We closed it down; we stopped it. Otherwise — the head of CDC said last night that you would have thousands of more problems if we didn’t shut it down very early. That was a very early shutdown, which is something we got right. Okay? Well, he’s left wing and he’s got all people that are left wing. And in many ways, he’s worse than Bernie. Look at what he did with guns; he put Beto in charge of guns. Beto wants to get rid of guns, right? So that’s a bad — that’s a bad stance. And he’s got a lot of people that are left wing, and they’ll be running the government. He’s not going to be running anything. If he ever got in, they’ll be running the government. They’ve got people further left wing than what Bernie has. So, not — not going to be good. Wouldn’t be good for Wall Street, I can tell you that. Plus, if you look at his taxes, he’s going to raise taxes incredibly. He’s going to raise taxes more than Bernie. I looked at — and he’s open about it. Bernie doesn’t like to — doesn’t like to talk about it. I mean, Joe Biden, his tax increases are — they’re staggering. It’s ridiculous. He’ll destroy everything that’s been built. No, I think lack of talent was her problem. She had a tremendous lack of talent. She was a good debater. She destroyed Mike Bloomberg very quickly, like it was nothing. That was easy for her. But people don’t like her. She’s a very mean person, and people don’t like her. People don’t want that. They like a person like me, that’s not mean. Okay, I’ll see you guys. Bye, bye everybody. Nice audience. Nice crowd. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, actually, we were giving — I think really given tremendous marks — if you look at Gallup poll, you look at other polls — for the way we’ve handled it. And one of the things I did is I closed down the borders to China and to other areas that are very badly affected and really having a lot of troubles — I mean, countries and areas of countries that have had a lot of problem. And I closed them down very early, against the advice of almost everybody, and we’ve been given rave reviews. And that’s why we have only, right now, 11 — it’s a lot of people, but it’s still 11 people — versus tremendous numbers of thousands of people that have died all over the world. We have 11. We have 149 cases, as of this moment. This morning, it was 129. And I just see — right now it’s about 149 cases. There are 100,000 cases all over the world. So we were really given tremendous marks for having made the decision. That was a decision I made to close down the border so that people from China, where we take in thousands and thousands of people a day, they stopped coming in very early — weeks ahead of where they normally would have been stopped. Well, I don’t blame anybody. I want to get everybody to understand: They made some decisions which were not good decisions. We inherited decisions that they made, and that’s fine. We undid — Yes. We undid some of the regulations that were made that made it very difficult, but I’m not blaming anybody. It just seems that the Democrats — some of them, I must say — and you know it better than anybody, Bret — it’s become much better. But some of the Democrats have said, no matter what — if we found a cure and everybody is better tomorrow morning at nine o’clock, they would say, “He’s done a terrible job.” It’s just automatic. “How is the President doing?” “Oh, terrible, terrible.” They don’t mean it. And we’ve done a great job. Again, we’ve gotten the highest poll numbers of anybody for this kind of a thing. And it’s — and the other thing: I’m working with phenomenal people, with CDC and all of the people involved. Mike Pence is doing a fantastic job. I mean, Mike Pence is working 20 hours a day or more on this and really doing a fantastic job. Well, you know, when you say “take office,” we just learned about this a very short while ago. I know, but we’re not going to be thinking — I’m thinking about a lot of other things too, like trade and millions of other things. I mean, we are doing some job with the economy. So I’m not thinking about this. But as soon as I heard that China had a problem, I said, “What’s going on with China? How many people are coming in?” Nobody but me asked that question. And you know better than — again, you know — you both know that I closed the borders very early. We’ve been given A-pluses for that. You know, it saved a lot of lives. Well, the testing, we did it — as soon as we found out that it was a problem, we did it. It’s not the kind of thing you say, “Gee, I just got elected. Let’s do some testing on this.” They had some bad decisions. Some bad decisions were made. We corrected those decisions. Well, I think people are viewing us as having done a very good job. What we have to do is do a very professional job. Nobody is blaming us for the virus. Nobody. I mean, I haven’t heard that, even from some of the so-called enemies or whatever you want to call them. They’re not blaming us. This started in China. How it started, there’s question — but thousands and thousands of cases in China. And it infiltrated to almost 100 countries right now. Nobody is blaming me. Well, look, we were set to hit 30,000 on the Dow. This is a number that nobody ever even came close to, and already, we have the number. And even though it’s down 10 or 11 percent, it’s still the highest it’s ever been by far. It certainly might have an impact. At the same time, I have to say, people are now staying in the United States, spending their money in the U.S., and I like that. You know, I’ve been after that for a long time. You know that. I’ve been saying, “Let’s stay in the U.S. Spend your money here.” And they’re doing that. They’ve sort of been forced doing that. We met with the airline companies yesterday. They’re doing a fantastic job. And they’re just not flying to areas that have a big problem. So, it’s going to all work out. Everybody has to be calm. It’s all going to work out. Sure. We could have a very long-term plan. We hope that doesn’t happen, but we’re — we have plans for every single possibility, and I think that’s what we have to do. We hope it doesn’t last too long. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah. Well, I have to tell you, I think — I appreciate the question. I think the country is far more united than people think. And, ultimately, what’s uniting the country is success. And we’re having more success than we’ve ever had. We got hit with the virus, really, three weeks ago, if you think about it, I guess. That’s when we first started, really, to see, you know, some possible effects. But even despite that, the country — we are having the greatest year. We had — last year was the greatest year we’ve ever had, economically. And I think the way we unite is really through success. But when they hit us, we have to hit back. I feel that. I mean, there’s two ways of doing it: turning your cheek — but I wouldn’t be sitting up here if I turned my cheek. If I said, “Okay, let them just keep hitting at me, and I won’t do it. They’re not interviewing me right now; they’re interviewing somebody else.” Maybe they won’t even be doing that, because if they don’t get ratings, they don’t interview anybody. That I’ve learned from — . But you know what? You can’t turn your cheek. I mean, we get hit — . Thank you. We get hit so hard, and we have a media that is — you know, I say, to a large extent, it’s a part of the Democrat Party. It really is. It’s terrible. It’s unfair. I call it “fake news.” I’ve used that, and people are using that, I guess, all over the world right now. And that’s the way it is. We have to fight back. If we don’t fight back, you won’t be a fan of mine very long. But I appreciate the question. Thank you. You mean they’re blaming me for Schumer? Why not? Why not? Well, look, I mean, we had a justice come out and criticize me badly. And I just responded to what she said. I had it twice. And when you look at — I had a very harsh criticism, as you know: Justice Ginsburg. During the — just before a debate during the election, as I was getting elected, she came out — she had to apologize. It was a terrible thing she said. She should have never been allowed to say it. But if they say something to me, I’m not allowed to say back. You had another justice say something that was somewhat derogatory, and all I did was respond. But I didn’t respond like Schumer. Schumer — that was a physical thing, in my opinion. You know, he tried to say, “Oh, well, that has to do with the election.” That had nothing to do with the election, the way he said we’re going to hit back like you’ve never seen before. That was a real intimidation. And the best you can say is they’re trying to intimidate so that the judges vote — so the justices vote their way. That’s no good either. But that was a physical — that was really — if a Republican did what Schumer did, they’d be in jail right now. It’s true. Well, look, I have to state the facts. I’m not threatening anybody physically. But if we have an Obama judge, we don’t do very well. Now, we’ve appointed 220 federal judges — the most, I think, in history. It’s a record. It’s a record. Because — because, number one, Mitch McConnell did a great job and the Republicans did a great job. But the bottom line is, President Obama gave me 142 openings when I first got there. Normally, you would have — there’s never been anything like that. Normally, you’d have no opening. Now, do you say he’s a great President? The most important thing you have to do, I say, is the military, but a lot of people say it’s judges and justices of the Supreme Court. President Obama gave us 142. It’s unheard of. If you have one, it’s like you got lucky. Had 142. We’re up to 220 federal judges and court of appeals judges, two Supreme Court justices. I mean, it’s incredible. But we were going — if you go to the Ninth Circuit, if you go certain places, it’s almost impossible to win. So I was surprised at Justice Roberts. And I have a lot of respect for him. I like him personally. I have a lot of respect. But I think that could have been left unsaid, because a lot of people, a lot of very top legal minds disagreed with him when he said it. Now, I’m just talking about the facts. I’m talking about, sort of, the facts of life. That’s the way it is. Good. Thank you, David. David, I love the question, because our EPA is much different. We’re very tough, but we get things done and we’re taking regulations off like nobody has ever seen. And I say very simply: I want to have the cleanest air on the planet. I want to have the most crystal clear, beautiful water on the planet. And our conditions now are much better than they were three years ago. But you know very well, David, because you’re into the world of regulation, I think it was maybe one of the biggest things we’ve done. I’ve cut regulations more than any President, whether they have eight years, four years, or in one case, quite a bit more than eight years. I cut more than any other President in the history of our country, and I did it in less than three years. So it’s a great question. The EPA was — this is why: I was able to get the country going because so many jobs were stopped by not only EPA, so many other agencies, where you’d have to go get 11 different permits for essentially the same thing. I opened up LNG plants in Louisiana where they were for years — for 10, 12, 14 years and longer — trying to get permits. They couldn’t get permits. I got them built: a 10-billion-dollar plant in Louisiana; the Keystone XL pipeline. I gave it — in my first week, I got approval. The Dakota Access Pipeline — I got the approval. Forty-eight thousand jobs. And, frankly, it’s more environmentally — you know, it’s better than having a train going up and down tracks, and you don’t know what happens with the train. Plenty of bad things happen with those trains. Here, you’re underground — environmentally better. So I think it’s a great question. We’re really — one of the reasons the economy is so strong is because of what we did with regulations. If the other side — we’ll call it the “other side,” affectionately — got in, they would have made regulations much, much tougher. Thank you. Oh. Thank you. Thank you. I think they thought you were going to give them a different answer, and that’s why they asked you that question. That sounded like a set-up question. But, David, you’re my man. David is my man. No, no, I’m only — I’m only kidding. Well, Martha, this area of Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania itself has the best numbers it’s ever had. It’s got the best economy it’s ever had. It has the best unemployment numbers it’s ever had. And Scranton has the lowest and best unemployment numbers they’ve — and employment numbers too — that they’ve ever had, by far. So, you know, we’re very happy about the job. The people in Pennsylvania, they’re very happy with the job. You know, it was 30 years since a Republican won Pennsylvania, and based on results, I think we’ll win it again very easily. Well, look, if she’s a true progressive, which probably she is, she should have dropped out three days ago. It would have been a whole different race. Texas was close. She got votes. She didn’t do well, but she got a lot of votes — far more than the difference. Think about Maine. Maine was almost a tie. They had to wait a day and a half before they could even call it, it was so close. She, I guess, came in third, and it was, you know, very distant third, but she got a lot of votes. Maine would have gone to Bern- — I think he would have gotten everything, right? Bernie Sanders would have won five, six, seven states. Would’ve won Minnesota. Would’ve won, at least, another two or three states. So when you look at it, she did him no favors. That was not a good friendship. We started to see that during the debates, by the way. That one became unhinged. But — — but, you know, if she would have gone out — she didn’t even have to endorse him. If she weren’t — if she just dropped out of the race, without an endorsement, he would have won a tremendous number of states that he lost. You know, he lost states by not very much, and she got enough votes that it would have made a big difference. I think he would be leading by a lot right now had she not been in the race. So it was a fake impeachment. We had a hundred — think of it — and the Republicans in the House — we had a 107 — 196 votes in favor, zero from the Republicans. Zero against. We picked up three Democrat votes on top of that. And we had one Democrat was so angry by it, that he left the party and became a Republican — which I think is a first time, because he left a majority it went into a minority. Van Drew. And it was a whole fake deal. And everybody knows that. I made a phone call. It was a perfect phone call. There was nothing wrong with it. And they said, “Let’s impeach.” Now, the real backstory is, when the phony whistleblower — who’s a total phony — he heard the call, supposedly — you know, through somebody — through the informant. Do you notice the way everybody disappeared? Once — thank goodness I had a transcriber. We had more than one. Thank goodness we had that call transcribed, because the transcripts of the call revealed that it was a perfect call. By that time, they were already talking about impeachment. And they were going by a phony whistleblower rendition of a call that didn’t exist. Just like Adam Schiff — he goes before Congress, and he starts talking about eight quid pro quos and “Don’t call me, I’ll call you.” Well, that’s a mob expression. “Don’t call me…” And everybody saying, “That’s a terrible call.” He made it up. It was totally made up. And I said, “Oh, good. We’ll sue him. We’ll take him down.” And then I find out he’s got immunity because he made it in Congress. It should almost be the opposite. You should almost have to be more honest if you’re in Congress. I think — I think that Biden has been damaged, yeah. A lot of people. I saw a couple of statements — very strong statements — by very respected people, in your world, saying they aimed at Trump and they took Biden down. And, really, that’s what happened, when you think. Because you look at the son: Here’s a guy, didn’t have a job, who was unfortunately — sadly, the military was a very sad experience for him. He goes out, he gets $3 million plus $183,000 a month to be a board member of a company that a lot of people said was corrupt. Worse — just as bad — China; I just made a great China deal. China is paying us billions and billions of dollars because of what I did to them with tariffs. Billions of dollars. I mean, to a point where my farmers are in love with me because I took some of that money and gave it to them. But his son walks out of China with a billion and a half dollars for a fund. Now, a billion and a half dollars for fund — meaning he’s going to make hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, and much more than that. I’ll tell you, I was all set for Bernie, because I thought it was going to happen. You know, we get ready for things, right? So, mentally, I’m all set for Bernie — communist — I had everything down. “He’s a communist.” I was all set. And then we have this crazy thing that happened — right? — on Tuesday, which he thought was Thursday. But he also said a hundred and fifty million people were killed with guns and he was running for the United States Senate. “Support me, I’m running for the United States…” There’s something going on there. But I was all set — I was all set. And, you know, when I focus — and we all focus, sometimes you do well and some people choke. I watched Mini Mike choke. When Mini Mike was hit by a very mean woman, he said, “Get me off this stage. Just get me off.” And that wasn’t a pretty sight to be — but I was all set to take on Bernie. I was ready. And then all of a sudden, they say, “Guess what…” I went to the First Lady, who people love. They — — I go in to the First Lady, and I said — and I said, “He just won Texas. He just won…” — you know, et cetera, et cetera. And, by the way, so close. It was a whole different thing because of her. So now I’m ready for Bernie and now all of a sudden I have a whole different — you know, it’s a whole different deal. Two very different people. I think, in a certain way, Bernie would be tougher because he’s got a base. It’s a much smaller base than my base. I think a lot of my people are here because — and I did nothing to do that — but we have a lot of support in Pennsylvania and I think we have a lot of support everywhere. Look at the rallies. Look at the rallies. But I was all set. I was all set for Bernie. I was ready to go. And then I say, “You know, I don’t think I’m running against Bernie.” I think it’s going to be very hard for him to come back. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It’s a great question and very important: healthcare. And I think it’s probably the thing that I’m most disappointed that I haven’t been able to say what a good job we’ve done. I haven’t been able to sell what a great job we’ve done. First of all, I got rid of the individual mandate, which was the worst part of Obamacare. That’s where you paid a fortune not to pay for horrible in- — you know, healthcare and insurance. And it had a tremendous impact. Preexisting conditions: 100 percent, we take care of. But we have many healthcare plans now where it’s 60 percent, even 65 percent less expensive than Obamacare. It’s better than Obamacare. And what we really have left is the carcass of Obamacare — or you could call it “new healthcare” — because without preexisting — without the whole thing with the individual mandate, it’s a whole different ballgame. It’s a much different — it’s a much different plan. And what we’d like to do is totally kill it, but come up — before we do that — with something that’s great. What we’ve done is we’ve really managed Obamacare — the remaining portion — we get rid of the bad part, but the remaining portion — really well. And you know, before I got involved, you know what was happening with the rates and Obamacare: They were going up at levels that nobody has ever seen before. We are managing it. And I had a decision to make. This was very important. I said to my people — and we have great people: Seema, Azar — I mean, great people that are so good at it. I said, “You know, I have a little problem: Do we manage it great until we get something much better or do we manage it poorly and say Obamacare is horrible?” And I said, “We’ve got to do the right thing. We’ve got to manage it really, really good.” So it’s not great healthcare, but we’re managing it fantastically. And you don’t see all those stories about the rates going through the roof anymore because we know what we’re doing. At the same time, we want to get you really fantastic healthcare. If we can win back the House, we’ll be able to do that. We have to win back the House, keep the Senate, keep the White House. We’ll be able to do that. Thank you. Thanks for the question. Right. Well, that’s what I said — Yeah. That’s what I said. We want to terminate Obamacare because it’s bad. Look, we’re running it really well, but we know it’s defective. It’s very defective. We got rid of the worst part. And that was a very important thing. You know getting rid of the individual mandate was a very important thing. But we want to get something — if we can get the House, you’ll have the best healthcare and health insurance anywhere on the planet. But we have to get the House back. Now, that means we have to hold the Senate. We have to get the House. We have to, obviously, keep the White House. But, what we’re doing is managing it really well. Now, it’s a case; it’s called Texas vs. — you understand — it’s Texas who is suing. They want to terminate it. But everybody there is also saying, and everybody — we have our great senator from Pennsylvania. Thank you very much, Pat, for being here. And Pat Toomey. And — but, very important — and our — by the way, our great congressmen, I have to say, they were warriors. Right? Real warriors, in terms of the fake impeachment. I will tell you that. But, so Texas is trying — and it’s Texas and many states — they’re trying to terminate, but they want to put something that’s much better. They’re terminating it to put much better. And they’ve all pledged that preexisting conditions, 100 percent taken care of. Thank you. Hi. Wow. Well, you know it’s been hard, but we’ve done it incredibly. It could have been — we have things called “loopholes,” and the loopholes are terrible, like lottery — where you give lotteries. They pick lotteries and they have people coming into our country. We have ended catch and release. We have, right now, 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our border, saying that — you know, if they don’t do that, we’re going to have to be very tough on Mexico. And they’re doing it because our soldiers aren’t allowed to be there for a lot of reasons. And, you know, we’re very politically correct, as a nation. Mexico, perhaps, is slightly less politically correct. And we have the best numbers that we’ve had in many, many months. We’ve had, I guess it’s now nine or ten months where the numbers are way down. And we’re going to keep them down, but we need the wall. And, most importantly, the wall is way under construction. We’re up to 129 miles already. Where we have a wall, by the way, nobody is coming through — practically nobody. We will have, by early next year, almost 500 miles of wall. And once we have that wall, it’s going to stop drugs, it’s going to stop big percentages of everything coming in. Okay? And we’re really — really doing job. And, by the way, it’s very important, because I could have done a much less expensive version. I could have done a much easier version, but a version that people would get over very easily. You’ve seen the people that get caught on top. It’s very high and very powerful. We are building exactly what border control — what the Border Patrol wanted. They wanted a very specific wall. You had to be able to see through it to the other side. You want to see whether people — I thought — you know, before I got involved, I said, “I can build just a nice concrete plank wall. Throw it up.” That would be no good. It wouldn’t work. We built the wall that everybody has been dreaming about, in terms of law enforcement, for many years. So we’re up to 129 miles. We’ll be at 500 miles in a very short distance. It’s really moving up quickly. It’s a big difference. Thank you. Right. But I talk about it. I do. Very much. And I’ll always talk about it because, to me, it’s very important. Now, the good thing about the debt is we’re paying very little interest — almost nothing. This is a great interest climate. In fact, I want to refinance the debt. But I had to fix the military. The military was depleted. I had to fix the military. It’s one thing to say — it’s one thing to say, “Gee, we did a good job on the debt” or “Gee, we did a good job on the budget,” and you have people from other countries running up the White House lawn. You know? “Maybe they took over our country, but I did one hell of a job on the budget.” Right? No. I had to fix the military. Two and a half trillion dollars. We had to do other things. The country, when I took it over, was in very bad shape. Remember this: President Obama had — he more than doubled — he put more debt on than all of the other Presidents of the United States combined. Combine all the debt of every other President. And I took it over. We had 20 — we had $20 trillion worth of debt on the country, and actually more than that. But he — and we had a lot of commitments for other things. And on top of it — you know, it’s one thing — you take over something and you have debt — you have a building, you have debt. But the building is fixed up. The country was a mess. We were in all these wars all over the place. Oh, absolutely. But when the trade deals kick in — now, again, we were disturbed by what’s going on with the virus, but that’s going to be fine. And, everybody, it’s — it’s going to be fine. But, you know, that was a disturbance. But I will say this: We — when these trade deals kick in, and when all — you know, the economy is the best economy we’ve ever had. It’s nothing compared to what it’s going to be when the trade deals kick in. Oh, we’ll be cutting, but we’re also going to have growth like you’ve never had before. We’ve never had growth like we’re experiencing. We will be experiencing when they kick in. China, as an example, they didn’t do anything with us. They’re now spending $250 billion a year, and that’s only for phase one. Phase two is going to be even more so. It’s $250 billion. I just made a deal with Japan where they’re paying $40 billion. They never gave us anything. All they do is sell us cars for no tax coming into the — to the country. South Korea — you know, I made a deal, and then I made the USMCA deal with Canada and Mexico, replacing the worst deal, which was made by — by the way, which was made by Joe. Okay? I didn’t want to say “Sleepy Joe” because I want to be respected. I want — I want to respect him. He looks like he’s going to be a candidate and I just say, “How did that happen?” So — but, no, Joe Biden — in all fairness, Joe Biden made a deal: NAFTA. He approved it. He was pushing it. It’s the worst trade deal ever made. We’re terminating NAFTA. We have the USMCA. China — if you look at what happened between China and Mexico and Canada, what they were doing to this country, how they were taking advantage of us. They were — Canada was charging us 300 percent tariffs. Now, we have it really in good shape. Yeah. I don’t think it’s on the minds of too many Americans, to be honest with you, but it certainly — it should be. Okay? And it’s good that it’s on your mind, because it’s big stuff and they do have a lot of power, a lot of nuclear power. So I don’t get credit for this — and maybe I should, maybe I shouldn’t. But when I became President, I was told by President Obama, sitting in the Oval Office in our — probably our only meeting, essentially. You know, that was enough for me. But I was told — I was at the funeral of President Bush. Sat next to him and I said, “Hello,” and then I said, “Goodbye.” That’s about — that’s about it. No, I didn’t like the — I don’t — I didn’t like the job he did. I didn’t like the job that he and Biden did. I didn’t like the position they put us in. I didn’t like what he did to our military. Our military — we didn’t even have a military. Our military was so depleted. And I tell the story, and I hate to tell it because it’s embarrassing. But, right now, we have more ammunition than we’ve ever had. It’s all over the place. But when I — when I — you know, we were having difficulty with a certain country. Remember “Donald Trump is going to start a war right away”? Well, here it is. We’re almost four years out; there’s been no war and we’re respected again. But I was told by a general, “Sir, please don’t do that.” “Why?” “We have no ammunition.” This is the condition we were left in. When you look at so many different problems that we were left, I mean — and with countries. But he said the biggest problem we have is North Korea; that’s what you’re alluding to. And I have a good relationship with him. I said, “Did you ever call him?” The answer is: Yes, he did. But I will tell you, I don’t think they admit that; maybe they do. But called many times, and Kim Jong Un did not want to talk to him. And, me, he wanted to talk to. And we met in Singapore. We met in Vietnam. And I also went to the border — the first person ever to walk over, you know, from — et cetera, et cetera. And we had — we have a very good relationship, understanding. Let’s see what happens. But, you know, the pundits say, “Isn’t it terrible what he’s done? He’s given…” I gave nothing. I gave nothing. The sanctions are on. They want to see if they can do something. But I haven’t given anything. If the other side got in, you would right now be in a big war with North Korea. Maybe it would be over by now, but you would, right — almost immediately, you would have started. And if you remember the rhetoric at the beginning, that was very tough rhetoric. But that rhetoric got us to a place — And the Olympics became successful because of me and South Korea. Because all of a sudden, they called, they said, “We’d like to be — you know, participate.” They didn’t sell any tickets because nobody wanted to go to the Olympics. All of a sudden, North Korea calls up and says, “We want to be a participant in the Olympics.” Everybody fell off their seat. That was because of me. And, by the way, the President of South Korea gives total credit for that. So it became successful. The bottom line is, I have a very good relationship with him. I cannot guarantee anything. But for three years, we’ve spent nothing. We’re getting sanctions, and we’re not in war with North Korea, which is not bad. I did. Very, very powerful. Yeah. So, these are warriors. We’ve been there for 20 years. We’re really serving more as a law enforcement group than a military group. We could win that war very easily, but I don’t feel like killing millions of people in order to do it. We don’t want to do that. You don’t want to do that. Nobody wants to do that. People are tired. Even the biggest hawks are tired of being there. I had a very good conversation with him. There was a group that formed. And, again, you know, they have many tribes and they have many different — it’s hard for one. There’s like perfectly one control. I spoke to a certain man who is the leader, but the leader has not — it’s not the easiest leadership position. And the structure is, you know, tribes all over the place. A tribe formed and a group formed that was going to attack certain soldiers — Afghan soldiers — and the military heard about it, and the military went and they took them out. That was it. I believe they really want to make a deal. I think after 19 — actually, going very close to 20 — years, they’re also tired of fighting, believe it or not. But they are warriors and they are fighters and that’s what they’ve done for a thousand years. You know, just ask — ask the Soviet Union, which became Russia because of Afghanistan. You know, it’s a tough place. Yes. Well, I was right. I was so right. Well, Mattis said that and I gave him more people for a short period of time and it didn’t work out. And what we’re doing is policing — On Afghanistan. As far as Syria: I did pull them out. I pulled them out. We were — we were securing the border between Turkey and Syria. I said “Why are we doing that? Turkey is big. Syria is fine. Let them fight their own battles. What are we doing with our soldiers — getting people killed to secure…” Now, the one thing — when I came in, ISIS was all over Syria, all over Iraq, and we don’t want them coming to us. And it was a mess. You understand that very well. And I knocked out 100 percent of the — of the territorial caliphate. 100 percent. We knocked the whole thing out. No, but just so you understand, so we knocked out the ISIS caliphate in vast amounts of the Middle East, and I did that fairly quickly. When I came — again, President Obama — it was all over the place. When I say, “We’re not doing the borders” — we did leave soldiers. We left soldiers because I kept the oil. And I was always against Iraq — going into Iraq. I think it was one of the worst — maybe the worst decision ever made. But I used to say, “Once they were in there, keep the oil.” They never kept the oil. We have an oil area in — near Syria and in Syria; we kept it. So the only soldiers I have over there, they’re guarding the oil. We kept the oil. So we kept the treasure. That’s okay. Well, you know, there’s a big question about the government of Afghanistan. There’s a big question about that whole situation in Afghanistan. We’re getting along very well with everybody. We have to get our people back home. It’s not fair. We’re a police force over there. We’re maintaining things. Eventually, we have to leave. We don’t want to stay there for another 20 years. We don’t want to stay there for 100 years. We want our people to come back home. Hi, Lynnette. Thank you. Oh, I like that. I do. I like you, too. Thank you. Thank you. A great honor. So, I gave an answer before: Success. But it’s truly a little bit more than that, because we’ve had great success, and there is a division; there’s no question about it. Politicians have to be able to be civil. If they’re not, you have to fight back. You have to. Otherwise, we’re not going to be — there’s a — there’s a movement on — and I call them the “radical-left Democrats.” And it really is the radical left, because we have plenty of Democrats that are terrific, and they want to see — you know, “Let’s get together. Let’s get things done.” There’s so many things we could do. We’ve done a lot. We’ve done more than any administration in three years, in the history of our country, for the first three years. And I say it all the time and the press doesn’t even dispute me, and they would do that. But we could do even so much more. We talked about a great question on the border. And the border question is true, but we should get rid of the loopholes. You can’t do that without Democrat votes. I really believe we’re going to win this next election, and when we do, the other side is going to say, “Okay, that’s it. Let’s get along.” I really believe that. But we have to win the election. Good question. Well, I’m not thrilled. So, yeah, it’s a great question, because I’ve always felt — you know, I don’t know, from the time I was a young guy, you know, I’ve always felt the concept wasn’t good. Then you’d read a lot of medical reports; it’s not good. Now, especially, they’re saying — by the way, if there was ever a time that you could convince people not to shake hands, this could be it. Okay? This could be it? But you know what I did? You know what I did? I really — I love the people of this country. You can’t be a politician and not shake hands. People come out — when I leave, I’ll be shaking hands with people. They want to shake your hand. They want to say hello. They want to hug you. They want to kiss you. I don’t care. It doesn’t mean — you have to do that. If I want to run — “No, I don’t shake…” Can you imagine? I’m going to be with a group of people, and they like Trump, and they come up, “Sir, thank you very…” “I don’t shake hands.” It’s over. I don’t care how nicely you say it. The bottom line is, I shake anybody’s hand now. I’m proud of it. They’re people that I love. They’re people that I want to take care of. Now, the concept of shaking hands since this — you know, you’re hearing a lot of stuff about “Try not to shake hands.” It hasn’t stopped me at all. But it is — it is a little bit of a problem, but I got over it. Well, I was kidding. You know, you’re not supposed to — I heard the other day, you’re not supposed to touch your face, so I went on camera and I said, “Listen, I haven’t touched my face in weeks.” No, obviously I’m kidding. I said, “And I miss my face.” And one of the networks said, “He said he didn’t touch his face.” And they show pictures of me. So I don’t know. These people. I loved my old life. The day before I announced I was running for President, that was the best period ever in my life. My company was the strongest it ever was, especially, you know, being in development, in real estate, all over the world. I built a great company. But it was the strongest because you have times when the markets go bad, and then you have to fight, and then the markets are good, and you’re doing great. It was the strongest period of my life. It was sort of the best period of my entire life. And then I announced I was going to run for President. And, you know, the greatest day of your life, they say, is the day before you announce you’re running for President. I don’t know if anybody has ever heard that, but they do say that about people. But in my case, I won. You know, I won. I saw, as an example — and they were using numbers, and they were saying how much various people spent to become President, and Bloomberg spent like $550 million. It was in, of all places, the New York Times. And this guy, Steyer — we call him “Impeachment Tom.” How did that work out? Not too good. Tom Steyer spent $250 million. Another one. Another one. Another: Steve Forbes spent a lot. A lot of people spent a lot of money. And I was sort of in the middle of the pact. This is your own money. I spent $70 million. And they said, “Lost. Lost. Lost. Lost. Lost.” “Donald Trump became President of the United States.” “Lost. Lost.” And I said, “Isn’t that cool? Isn’t that cool?” You know. So, I love it. You know why I love it? Because we are doing more than anybody can imagine. Even Right to Try. For years, they wanted to have Right to Try where we could use our medicines if somebody is terminally ill. So many things we’re doing. So that’s what I — Well, yeah. I mean, I can’t walk down the street now. Before, I could. I was well known. We had a very successful business, and even my show turned out to be successful. I had many top best sellers and things. You know. But I could walk down the street, and I could actually walk into a store. And it was, you know, fine. It was not like some — nobody knew me, but now, today, if I ever suggested that to Secret Service: “You know, I think I’m going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, and let’s go shopping.” So, it’s a lot different. So, I do miss that. I miss that, sort of, free life. This is not a free life. But I love what we’re doing because we’re accomplishing more than anybody has ever — I’m viewing it as we’re saving this country. This country was going wrong. The country was going wrong. Well, I don’t want to say, because I have a lot of close friends. I really do. You know, I’m putting everybody on the spot. I get along great with our Vice President. I keep hearing I’m replacing him. He’s doing a phenomenal job. He’s a great guy and a loyal guy, and he works so hard. Every day I read: “He’s going to put this one, he’s going to put that one, he’s going to put…” If I did, that would be a great act of disloyalty because he’s been great. I speak to him a lot. But I speak to all of the senators a lot. I speak to all of the congressmen a lot. We have great people in Washington. And you have great Democrats, too. I mean, I speak to Democrats also, believe it or not. But we have great, great people in Washington. Very smart people in Washington. And it’s going to come together. It’s going to come together, and it’s going to be sooner than you think. I have no doubt. I have no doubt. Keep up the good work. I have no doubt about that, Rafael. Thank you very much. That’s pretty good. And I heard that — that one store of yours, that first one, is really spectacular too. He just told me that backstage. I said, “Give me a little bit about Rafael.” He said, “Well, I’ll tell you, he’s really successful.” Great job. My administration is determined to ensure our nation’s prosperity lifts all Americans. We want to lift all Americans. Since my election, more than 1 million Latinas have entered the workforce and their unemployment rate right now is falling to a record low. Within a very short period of time, it’s going to be the lowest-ever. We have a tremendous thing happening. And it’s like that for almost all groups. All groups, it’s — the country is really doing great. And countries are sending tremendous amounts of companies — companies that they sort of control because they control where they go, and I say, “Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, you have to let them come. You have to let them come.” And they let them come. And it’s made a tremendous difference in our country. And I’m very proud also to report that more Latinas now own small businesses than ever before. The highest number ever recorded. Since I took office, the Small Business Administration has made over $6 billion in loan guarantees to Hispanic-owned small businesses — another record. And I’d like to ask Administrator Carranza to please come up and tell us a little about the great job that you’re doing. Thank you very much. Thank you, Jovita. Thank you. Thank you very much, Jovita. Thank you. Beautiful job. I would have given you a little more distance, but I have this machine standing right next to me, and I didn’t want to take it on. And she is doing a fantastic job. Thank you, Jovita. America is also making tremendous progress in delivering fair and reciprocal — one of my favorite words, “reciprocal,” because we’ve been taken advantage of for a long time with these horrible trade deals — but reciprocal trade to defend our jobs and all of our exports, and to knock down unfair barriers for American-made goods. We love American-made goods. The United States lost one in four manufacturing jobs with the horrible NAFTA that was signed many years ago. That’s why my administration replaced NAFTA with the brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which is incredible. The USMCA will give a major boost to farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, workers, and to our country as a whole. What a difference it will make. I especially want to thank Hector and everyone here at the Latino Coalition, whose vital support helped get this deal passed. Hector and everybody really chipped in. We were having a hard time getting it passed through the Democrats, I must say. And it was not an easy situation, but in the end, we got it done. And it’s going to go down as one of the great deals. We also made a big deal with China, to put it mildly. They’ll be buying $250 billion dollars’ worth of our goods. I look forward — that’s a big one. And others. I deal with Japan, I deal with South Korea. We have — we’ve done a lot of them. It’s going to have a tremendous impact over the next number of years. And, I guess, by the time it kicks in, it’ll be around election time, but it’ll — unfortunately, some of them don’t kick in for a little while. They kick in gradually because it takes, even bureaucratically, a certain period of time. But, boy, the numbers are going to be astronomical. What’s going to happen to this country is going to be — I hope they remember that I did it. Okay? They’ll say, “Oh, he had nothing to do with it. What did he have to do with the China deal, the USMCA? What did he have to do with the deal with Japan or the deal with South Korea?” You know, it’s like — but you people will remember. As long as you remember, that’s all that matters. But I look forward to working closely with Mexico in the years to come for the continued benefit of both of our countries. We have a great relationship. Also here this afternoon is Miguel Gutierrez of San Antonio, Texas, who has been able to triple his business in the past two years. If he was a New York Stock Exchange company, his stock would be very high; it would triple. They like to hear “triple.” There aren’t too many of them. But triple them. And revenues, employees, and expansion, and an extension of the new markets into Mexico. And I’d like to ask Miguel to please come up and tell us your story. It’s a great story. Thanks, Miguel. Thank you, Miguel. Thank you very much. That’s fantastic. Great job. Twenty years? You’ve been on the board for 20 years, Miguel? That’s pretty good. You’ve seen a lot of progress, haven’t you? That’s great. Thank you very much. As we expand freedom and opportunity in America, we’re proudly promoting liberty in the Western Hemisphere. The United States is leading a historic coalition of 59 countries dedicated to the future of democracy for the people of Venezuela. The tragedy in Venezuela is a reminder that socialism and communism bring misery and heartache everywhere they’re tried. I remember so many years ago — 20, less — it was the wealthiest country. People said, “Oh, it’s so incredible. It’s so beautiful. It’s so happy.” And now people can’t get water, they can’t get basic food. They can’t get anything. It’s incredible to see what bad concepts and bad people — I mean, you have some bad people, leadership — or lack of leadership. But it’s amazing to see what happened to Venezuela, beautiful Venezuela. We’re with Venezuela all the way, and we’re doing a lot. And we have a lot planned. America stands with the suffering people of Venezuela and Cuba and Nicaragua — — in their righteous struggle for liberty. And we’ll continue working for the day when we will become the first fully free hemisphere in all of human history. First time. And we’ll have that day. We’ve invested over $2 trillion to rebuild the United States military — it was in very, very, bad shape; it was very, very depleted — and delivered a well-deserved pay raise for every soldier, sailor, airman, Coast Guardsman, and Marine. More than a quarter of a million Hispanic Americans courageously serve in our armed forces. It’s true. Great. Great. And we’re also immensely grateful for the countless Hispanic Americans proudly serving in local, state, and federal government, including the brave Hispanic Americans protecting our nation on the front lines as border agents. We have a lot of border agents. They are doing a great job, and we’re — we’re doing incredible numbers. You’re hearing what’s going on on the border, and we’re actually up to mile 128 for the wall. And the wall has made a tremendous difference. And you know who wants the wall more than anybody else? The Hispanics. Because they get it. They’re here, they want to be safe, and they know some of the people coming across are not the people that you want to be with. And the Hispanics understand the border. You know, when I — a poll came out with very high numbers, and people said, “I can’t imagine why the Hispanics like President Trump so much.” You know why? Because they understand the border better than anybody, and they want a safe border. They understand it better than anybody. So I wasn’t surprised, and some of the other folks weren’t surprised. But some were, but now they’re not any longer. It’s been — it’s been a great relationship that I’ve had with Hispanic Americans. It is really estimated that more than half of our nation’s border agents — and this is a number that I think can even go higher than this but — are Hispanic Americans. And they do an incredible job. We’re immensely grateful for their amazing work in seizing drugs; stopping human trafficking, which is so terrible; and ensuring a safe, human, and lawful system of immigration. A real humane system is what we’re developing along the border. At every level of government, our nation is truly blessed to be defended by thousands of Hispanic American heroes, and that’s what they are. Today we give thanks to the millions of wonderful Latino immigrants and citizens who uphold our laws, strengthen our families, and contribute to our communities. They build incredible businesses, like we’ve just seen, and raise up our industries and protect our great American flag. So important. Our Latino communities have always been a vital and indispensable part of the American family. From the beginning of our republic, the exceptional drive, talent, faith, skill, imagination, and devotion of Latino Americans has uplifted our entire nation. You’ve deeply enriched American life in history and culture. Latinos have invigorated our economy, expanded our prosperity, and poured your heart, sweat, and soul into our beloved country. Today we express our gratitude and appreciation to each and every one of you for keeping America safe, strong, proud, prosperous, and free. And together, we are making America greater than ever before. I’d like to just say this has been a great honor to be with you. It’s — I’m with you all the way. We’re working together really brilliantly, hand in hand. And I just leave by saying God bless you all and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, thank you very much, everyone. We’re with the great airline executives of the world, really. These are the biggest and the best, and know the business better than anybody. They’ve been in it for a long time, and they’ve emerged — in all cases, head their companies. And we’re talking about the effects of the virus on air travel and what they see. In a certain way, you could say that the borders are automatically shut down, without having to say “shut down.” I mean, they’re, to a certain extent, automatically shut down. But it’s affecting the airline business, as it would. And a lot of people are staying in our country, and they’re shopping and using our hotels in this country. So, from that standpoint, I think, probably, there’s a positive impact. But there’s also an impact on overseas travel, which will be fairly substantial. And, Mike, maybe I’ll let you give a little briefing as to what we’ve just discussed. Right. Good, Mike. Thank you very much. I just want to add, if I might — and to go a little bit further — the Obama administration made a decision on testing that turned out to be very detrimental to what we’re doing. And we undid that decision a few days ago so that the testing can take place in a much more accurate and rapid fashion. That was a decision we disagreed with. I don’t think we would have made it, but for some reason it was made. But we’ve undone that decision. Also, when people come in from certain areas, we’re doing checks not only at the site of takeoff but at the site of landing. So when they land in our country, we’ll also do it; that’s if the planes are leaving from certain destinations. I might ask, Doctor, if you could, I’d like you to say a few words. You’ve been doing a fantastic job in just a short time. We haven’t had much time, but you’ve really been doing a fan- — a really fantastic time. Please. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Doug, do you have anything to say? Right. Doug is the head of American Airlines, as you know. Maybe we’ll go around the room, if you’d like to say something. Please. Thank you. We appreciate the job you’re doing. Thank you very much. Please. Are you using different things for the cleaning, the fluids? Are you using different cleaning ? Thank you very much. Great job. Peter? Good. Thank you very much. Thanks, Peter. Yes. It’s true. That’s very good. Chad, did you have anything to say about it? And, Chad, anything different on the southern border, where we’re doing so well? We’re setting records on the southern border, in terms of allowing the people that are supposed to be here in, but not allowing others in. Anything new on the southern border? Good job. Thank you. Yeah. No, we’re doing a good job. These professionals are really amazing. They’ve really stepped up, like the airlines have stepped up, very much so. Thank you. Please. Thank you very much. Oscar? And that’s right: You are a heart transplant survivor. I was reading about that. He’s one of the big executives, great executives of our country, of the world. And you’re a heart transplant — I tell you, you look very good to me, Oscar. You have that one down. Don’t recommend it. But you — that’s a fantastic story. Wow. That’s great. Thank you very much, Oscar. Mike, why don’t you finish it up? Great job, Mike. As certain areas get to be more of a problem, we may close them up, as we have done with numerous areas. At this moment, we think we have it very much in hand. We’ve closed certain areas down very strongly — in some cases, not whole countries, but certain areas within countries, like in Italy. We are, I think, doing a very effective job, in terms of that. It’s very important. The one thing that we were discussing before is you really don’t know what the percentage is. Some people will have this at a very light level and won’t even go to a doctor or hospital, and they’ll get better. There are many people like that. Young people seem to be — you can’t say “immune” to it, but they’re certainly — the numbers are very small. And it does affect the older people, like the nursing home situation that we have on the West Coast — a single nursing home, where we have a pretty big percentage of people. But as things go along — so we were trying to adjust that number and we’re trying to see what the number might be. But if you add, you know, many, many people that have it and don’t know they have it or they think they have a cold and, all of the sudden, they’re recovering from it, I think that number will probably be a lot different number than the two’s and even the one and a half’s that we’re hearing. And I think that’s an important thing for people to know. I’m very proud of the people in the administration. I’m very proud of the airline business. You said it very well when you said the airline business always seem to pull together. I’ve seen that over the years and this is a great case of it. And I want to thank you all. You’re great executives and you love the country and you love what you do. And thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Don’t ask that question, please. Because they haven’t asked it. So, I don’t want you to give them any ideas or you’ll end up heading an airline. He’ll end up heading an airline. That’s a pretty tough question. So, I don’t know. Well, they haven’t — we haven’t discussed that yet. Wait, go ahead. What? Yeah, I think where these people are flying, it’s safe to fly. And large portions of the world are very safe to fly. So we don’t want to say anything other than that. And we have closed down certain sections of the world, frankly, and they’ve sort of automatically closed them also. They’ll understand that and they understand it better, perhaps, than anybody. Yes, it’s safe. Well, a lot of people are doing a lot of domestic business now, I can tell you. They’re staying in this country. They feel safe because we have a — if you look at a percentage, we have a very, very small percentage. And a big percentage of what we have is when we brought in the 40 or so people from the ship. We brought them in, we immediately quarantined them, but you’re adding that to the numbers that we had, which were very small. Now, what we’re going to do is, as people get better — because we have — you know, most of these people are getting better. Some are already released. Some are going home, some are, you know, get a full 100 percent report. We’re going to take them off the list. But we have a very small number of people in this country. We have a big country. The biggest impact we had was when we took the 40-plus people. They’re Americans. I mean, I could say, “Don’t let them into the country.” But these are Americans and they were literally stranded and it was very unfair. We brought them back. We immediately quarantined them. But you add that to the numbers. But if you don’t add that to the numbers, we’re talking about very small numbers in the United States. We’ve all done a very good job — all of us. And I think the news has been and the — for the most part, the media has — has really treated us very fairly, which I appreciate. I think it’s very important. Well, let me ask the head of American Airlines and United Airlines. Yeah. Maybe Dr. Birx. Dr. Birx will be — Ambassador. And then maybe you can say something. And I haven’t touched my face in weeks. Been weeks. I miss it. Doug, what would you say about that? I would think — Oscar, how would you handle that? You have a lot of people, they book and now maybe — I think people are going to be very impressed with what the airlines do. Yeah. Okay, well, let’s talk about it. Go ahead. Big difference. This was a very big move. And it was a — it was something that we had to do and we did it very quickly. And now we have tremendous flexibility. Many, many more sites. Many, many more people. And you couldn’t have had that under the Obama rule, and we ended that rule very quickly. Yes. Go ahead. Chad. I think we will continue to have conversations, but, yes, we’ll get resolution. And much of that has been done already. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. I can’t believe it — no questions on the election? This has to be very — I can’t — — no, no. I can’t believe it. . That was something. Well, I think the election was great last night. I thought it was great. I thought the results were — it was a great comeback for Joe Biden. Incredible comeback, when you think about it. But if you would’ve looked — if Elizabeth Warren would’ve done what she probably should’ve done, from their point of view, he would’ve won. Right? He would’ve won a lot of states, including Massachusetts, probably Texas, definitely Minnesota. So Bernie would’ve won states that he lost, and he lost fairly easily. But, in particular, Massachusetts. I would say, Minnesota, in particular. I would also say Texas. And some others. So had she — I put something out on it this morning. She was really a spoiler because other people got out and those votes inured to Joe. And those people really helped Joe, you know, by getting out early — the couple that got out and made the endorsement. In the case of Elizabeth Warren, had she gotten out, it would’ve been a very different situation, I think. It would’ve been a very different night. Just that one simple move. Had she left, you pick up Massachusetts, Minnesota, and probably Texas. And those are the three I checked. I would imagine there are others that he would’ve picked up too. So, Elizabeth Warren was the single biggest factor in that election last night. It would’ve been a very different thing, and not in a positive way for her — in a very selfish way for her. She was very selfish from that point of view. Now, do I care? No, because we’re just waiting to find out who we’re running against. But when you look at it — pretty incredible. If she would’ve — if she would’ve gotten out and endorsed — even if she didn’t — she didn’t even have to endorse. I think there’s a lot of bad blood there. But had she gotten out and endorsed, he would’ve been a lot better off. Well, now, I think it’s a very tough — I think it’s tough. I think Joe has an easier path right now, believe it or not. I see Mini Mike just got out, and he’s going to, you know, try and save face by putting some money into Biden’s campaign. And we’ll see what happens. I don’t think that’s going to have an impact. You know, you got to — look, money has to be spent wisely. One thing this whole thing has shown is that you can’t buy an election. It’s a beautiful thing. Steyer put in 250, 300 hundred million dollars. And now who knows where he is. He’s home, probably licking his wounds. And Bloomberg put in, probably, a billion dollars. And, you know, sometimes you just don’t have what it takes. And I said to him, “It’s not easy doing what I did, is it?” So it’s one of those things, you know. But it’s going to be very interesting. To think that this would’ve changed so much — because if you go before Saturday, before South Carolina, I mean, he had — Joe had absolutely no chance, according to you people. But they used to say that about me too. Not as much though. I think — I always felt I had a very good chance. But I’d watch, and they’d say, “Well, can’t happen.” But it happened, and it happened pretty easily. I think now it’s — I think Joe actually would have the advantage now. You know, if you look at the states he’s going to with Florida and others, I think he’s got an advantage in those states. But, again, had Elizabeth Warren endorsed Bernie, you’re talking about a whole different subject. And that’s not even a question. You’re talking about a whole — because he would’ve gotten 80, 90, almost — I mean, he would’ve gotten most of those votes. So you’re talking about a much different thing. I think — you know what it is? I think — Well, I’ve said from the beginning: It’s partially this. It’s a — you know, a big part of this, but it’s also the fact that they didn’t like seeing what they’re seeing. But they don’t like — they don’t like Joe either. Joe has become — you know, he’s — a lot of people are with Joe. If you look at those people, they’re worse than Bernie, in terms of being radical left. I mean, some of Joe’s handlers — and that’s what they are, is handlers. I want to be nice, but they are handlers. Some of Joe’s handlers are further left than Bernie. That’s pretty scary. So, it’s going to be that way. Yeah. Well, it couldn’t be less powerful because look what a billion dollars did. He won nothing. I mean, he got so few delegates. It’s incredible. I would say, probably — well, I know. Now he’s doing that because, you know, he’s spiteful and he’s a spiteful guy. I know him well. He’s a very spiteful guy. He’s very upset. He made a fool out of himself, to be honest with you. And it’s — he’s not too happy about that. I think the first thing he should do is fire his political consultants because I could’ve told — I know him. I could’ve told him very easily, “You can’t win. You can put $2 billion in; you can’t win.” Okay. Thank you, everybody. So, we just got back. We had a great tour of NIH. And Dr. Fauci is here, along with our Secretary. And a lot of progress. Maybe, Alex, you’d like to start and then we’ll have the Doctor say something. Which is a record. Yeah, please. Do you want to talk about therapeutics? If it works. I haven’t seen it. I’m focused on this. The country is in great shape. The market is in great shape. I’m focused on this. This is very important. I like middle-income tax cuts. I think it would be a good time. Middle-income tax cuts. If the Democrats would approve it, I’d go along with it. It’s a payroll tax, yeah. Payroll tax cut. I would do it if they can approve it. I would do it. Yeah, I think there’s — I think we have a lot of great places we could travel to, right in the United States. We have a lot of great places we can travel to. Okay? Go ahead. Go ahead. That’s up to them. Hey, let them stay in the United States. If they don’t travel, if they stay here, that’s not a bad thing for us. I — I’ve been saying for a long time people should do that. No, I think they could have done — I think they should do more. I think they hinted that they’re not going to do much more and that’s unfortunate. He gave a very bad signal, in my opinion. Thank you. Thank you, Tony. Good. Good. Thank you. Thank you, Francis. Good. Wow. That’s great. I agree. Thank you. Thank you, Francis. Thank you very much. That’s fantastic. That’s great. Right. Thank you, John. Good. Right. Right. Right. Wow. Well, I want to thank you all. This is incredible. And I’ve heard about you, and I know all of you by name, and now I get to meet you. unfortunately, I get to meet you, because we’re talking about this. But we’ve made tremendous progress. I know you’re dealing with other nations to help them out because they really — they got hit, some of them very badly. And we’re talking to them also. And we’re making decisions as to whether or not we’re allowed to travel — they’re allowed to travel. They’ve been — we’ve been pretty severe on those restrictions, but I guess we did the right thing by being severe. NIH is the home of — I mean, I see so many different factors, and it’s true — the greatest doctors. I’ve heard that for so long. I heard that from my uncle, Dr. John Trump. He — big fan of what you’ve done and how it started. And it’s really been an incredible situation. But the scientists and researchers all over the world, they say this is the best there is. And I think the world is extremely happy that you’re involved. And, Tony, your reputation is second to none. I think we all agree with that. You have to agree with that, John, right? I mean, you have no choice. But the fact is, it is — in this case, it’s true. And we’re very lucky to have you. I will say that the Vice President is over on the Hill. He’s just leaving now, and I told him to stay there and finish it up. But we’re doing very well in terms of getting the funding we need, the necessary funding. And I asked for X, and they want to give us more than X. And that’s okay, as far as I’m concerned. In this case, Francis, that’s unusual, but that’s okay. But I just want to thank everybody at NIH and all of the great scientists and doctors and everything. I know you’re working around the clock. I know you’ve made some great finds already, and that’s — really, it makes us feel very good. We had some good meetings yesterday with the companies that — I guess you ultimately would go to the companies? You’d have to go to the companies. So we had Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson and some of the other great companies, and they were very positive as what — as to the outcome. And therapeutics were a very big thing, because I guess therapeutics can happen faster than the actual vaccine. And certainly the result can happen a lot faster. So we’re looking for some good answers. But I just want to thank you very much, Tony. And we really appreciate it. And, John, thank you. Thank you very much. Fantastic job. Thank you very much. And, you, I don’t have to shake hands with. I see him every — I see him every day, so I don’t have to bother. So thank you all very much. Great job. Appreciate it. Well, I haven’t been asked to. But I think we’re making decisions on certain parts of those countries, as you know. We’ve already made a decision on parts of Italy. And Japan — it’s very unfortunate because I’ve seen the incredible job they did on the Olympics. As you know, they’re building a facility; it’s really finished. It’s beautiful. It’s finished right on time — as usual, with the Japanese. The Prime Minister, a very good friend of mine. And — Prime Minister Abe. And so I don’t know what they’re going to do. They have this magnificent facility, and I don’t know what they’re going to do, but they’ll make the right decision, I know that. But, yes, if it was necessary, I would do it. Yes. Well, we’re looking at different areas, and we’ll make that decision with these professionals. We made an early decision based on a little bit of luck, I suspect, but that was the original decision on China itself. And China, in all fairness to them, they never blamed us. It was, you know, a tough decision for them, but they fully understood. They were very reasonable about it. But that was a hard decision to make. But I guess we would have had a lot more people with difficulty if we didn’t make that decision very early on. But we’ll be making additional decisions as they arise, I guess, Tony. We’re not looking at it very strongly. We’re not seeing a lot of evidence in that area. We’re closing it, I guess, automatically because we have a very strong border there now. We didn’t have a strong border at all. We’ve built 129 miles of wall, and the wall area is 100 percent secure. But we haven’t seen any great — I don’t think we’ve seen any great evidence of that area as a problem at this moment. So we won’t have to bother with that at this moment. Anybody? You’re so nice today. I can’t believe it. It’s the NIH. It rubbed off. Say it? Well, it’s going to be a very interesting evening of television. I think it’s really going to be something. It’s — they’ve got some races going on that didn’t seem to exist a few days ago. And now Biden has come up a little bit. And I don’t know what’s happened with Bernie. I think they’re trying to take it away from him. I don’t know if that’s fair, but I guess it’s politics when you get right down to it and what’s fair. But I think it’s going to be a very interesting evening of television. And because of the time difference — California time difference — it’s going to go a little bit later than we’re accustomed to, right? And I will be watching — who would I like to win? Anybody. I’ll take anybody I have to. That’s the way it’s going to work. Doesn’t matter. No, I have — I really just — you know, we’ve done a great job. We have the strongest economy on Earth. We — we’ve gone up and, you know — as you know, China’s economy has been hurt very badly, long before this. We’ve done a really good job, and I think people understand that. And I’m looking at polls that are very good. But, you know, whoever it is, it is. We’ll take them on. We have no choice, right? Anything else? Steve? No, I have no reaction. Short-term missiles? No. No. None. I don’t want to say that. But we had a very good conversation with the leader of the Taliban today, and they’re looking to get this ended, and we’re looking to get it ended. I think we all have a very common interest. We’ll find out about the country itself. But the country really has to get it ended. We’ve been there for 20 years. Other presidents have tried and they have been unable to get any kind of an agreement. The relationship is very good that I have with the mullah. And we had a good, long conversation today. And, you know, they want to cease the violence. They’d like to cease violence also. Well, they may be reluctant. You know, they’ve been — they’ve done very well with the United States for many years, far beyond military, if you look at all the money that we’ve spent in Afghanistan. We’ve spent trillions of dollars. Trillions of dollars. And we’re really a police force. We’re really not fighting, per se. It’s a fight that, if we had to, we’d win. But I don’t want to kill millions of people. We would win it fairly quickly, but I don’t want to kill millions of people. I think it’s crazy. And so we’ve been there — we’ll be very — very soon, it’ll be 20 years. And I said, right from the beginning, not easy to get out of these conflicts. Very complex in terms of all of the people you have to deal with, including, frankly, people in the Senate, people in the House. And a lot of people feel differently about things. But I’ve been amazed at how positive the response is to getting out of Afghanistan and to moving on. And I really had a great conversation with him today. Yes? I could ask you to answer that question. I haven’t seen that report. No. I haven’t seen it. Well, we’re going to look at the uninsured because they have a big problem. And we’re going to look at the uninsured people that — you know, this came — it was a surprise to all of us. It just happened. It shows what can happen in life. But we’re going to be looking at the uninsured and see if we can help them out. Okay. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Hello, folks. So I’m going to the National Institute of Health. We’re having a roundtable. Things are going very well, as you see. It’s been very strong. Mike Pence and the entire group are doing an excellent job. And do you have any questions? Well, it’s — anything can happen, but I wouldn’t say inevitable at all. No. I wouldn’t say — we’ve really — we’ve done a good job by doing it and combatting it so early. We have the best people in the world. And I think we’re getting a lot of credit for having made that early move. So, no, I don’t think that’s inevitable at all. Well, I think Congress — we’re working along well with Congress to get the various fundings that we’re looking for. That’s important in terms of stopping what we’re doing. Some countries have some very big problems. We’re working with them to help them. They’re really unaware of — they’ve never done this before. We do it very well. And we’re working with other countries, and that’s very important. Well, I think I’m going to leave that to Prime Minister Abe. He’s a friend of mine. He’s built a beautiful venue. It’s a very sad thing if that would happen, because the venue is incredible. They’ve spent billions of dollars. But I’ll leave that up to Japan. That’s up to them. I would say that the Fed funds rate — the rate, as you would call it, is too high. It should be eased down so that we’re competitive. Look, we have the greatest country in the world. We have the strongest country in the world. It’s our dollar that the world relies on. We should have the low rate, but we have a Fed that doesn’t agree with that. I disagree with them. Say it. I did. I spoke to the leader of the Taliban today. We had a good conversation. We’ve agreed there’s no violence. We don’t want violence. We’ll see what happens. They’re dealing with Afghanistan, but we’ll see what happens. Okay? We had, actually, a very good talk with the leader of the Taliban. Well, I think there’s no question the establishment — the Democrat establishment — is trying to take it away from Bernie Sanders. There’s no question about that in my mind. Now, look, a lot is going to be learned tonight. We’ll see how well Biden does. We’ll see how well Sanders does. I would’ve said, two, three days ago, Biden was not looking too good. Now he’s looking better. But a lot is going to be known by a certain time tonight — you tell me the time — by, you know, California, we’re a little bit — we’re a little delayed. So probably by 9 or 10 o’clock tonight, we’re going to have some big answers. We’re looking at that whole situation. There are many people without insurance. So we’re looking at that situation for those people. Whoever it is, I don’t care. I really don’t care. Whoever it is, we will take them on. Hey, the job we’ve done — we’ve rebuilt the military, we have the strongest economy we’ve ever had. All of the things we’ve done. I will take on anybody. Go ahead. Any of them. Very gladly. Very gladly. Go ahead, Jim. Well, we’re being very stringent. But we’re now looking at other countries that have been badly affected, and we’re thinking about doing something. We may have to do. We don’t want to do that, but we’re looking at other countries and we’re being very stringent. Now, I’m going but I’ll be back, and I’ll see you over there. Go ahead. Say it? We’re not looking at that at all. No. There’s only one hotspot, and that’s also pretty much in a very — in a home, as you know — in a nursing home. No, not at all. No, not at all. But we’re doing a fantastic job. The professionals are doing a great job. We’re really happy with the job they’re doing. They have — they have been just ahead of it. And we’re ahead of it by having stopped so much earlier than — nobody wanted us to cut off access to our country, and I did it early. By doing that, that was a big step. Otherwise, many more people would be infected. That’s a tough move. When did they announce that? A little while ago? That’s a tough move. No, I’m not prepared for that. But let them do what they want to do. I’m hearing more and more about that. I don’t think it would be necessary, no. That’s too bad. Jeff, go ahead. Question? We’re watching Italy very closely, South Korea very closely, even Japan very closely. And we’ll make the right determination at the right time. We’ve cut it off, as you know, with numerous other countries, okay? Say it? They are the hotspots right now. No. What? I didn’t watch it. No, I didn’t watch it, but the Fed is very disappointing to me. They have to lead, not follow. They are following, not leading. They’re very disappointing. No, no, no. This is not supposed to be a political rally. This is not a political rally. I don’t like talking politics. We’re talking about the economy, rural America. I don’t like talking about politics. This a pretty wild group you have here, I think. But it’s a great group of people. It’s a great — a great feeling. You can feel it. I mean, we have a great group of people, and I appreciate it. The economy of rural America has grown 30 times faster under my administration than during the four years prior to my election. Think of that. Thirty. Thirty times. Even I — that sounds like an exaggeration. If it is, you’ll read about it tomorrow on the Wash- — . They’ll give me a Pinocchio. Well, that’s what they have. They had to get it somewhere. I know — one thing I know: It’s grown a hell of a lot faster. Thirty times sounds like a lot. But they are; they’re doing great. Together, we’re building the most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society ever to exist in this country. Under our massive tax cuts, governors across the country have designated nearly 9,000 distressed community as Opportunity Zones, and neighborhoods are being revitalized every single day. You see that. The Opportunity Zones — it’s Tim Scott. Senator Tim Scott from South Carolina has been so incredible. He came in with the idea of Opportunity Zones. And I don’t think there’s been anything like it. We have — all over the — thousands all over the country in areas that haven’t seen investment in 40 years. People are putting tremendous amounts of money. Investors. Sometimes you’d say rich people are putting money in. They’re creating jobs and they’re happy with it. I’ve — nobody has seen anything like it. It’s really prospering. Maybe because the economy is so good, but things like that help make the economy good. So it’s been a very unusual — usually, that stuff — almost never does that stuff work. And then the government comes in with massive subsidies and loses their shirt. This is something where people are investing in areas that they would have never, ever in a million years invested in, and it’s become a tremendous success. The fake news doesn’t like talking about it, unfortunately, but one day they will. Because I think you can’t help it. It’s become one of the great successes. We’re also promoting workforce development through our pledge to America’s workers. Four hundred and thirty companies have already committed to providing new jobs and training opportunities to over 15 million Americans. And I give my daughter, Ivanka, a lot of credit for that. She — she came in, she said, “Daddy…” It’s true. She had a great company in New York. She wanted to just come and just help people get jobs. I said, “Would you like to do this?” “No, I want to help people get jobs.” So she started off with 500,000 jobs, and she just broke 15 million. She did the 500,000. If you know her, I’m not surprised. She did the 500,000 like the first week. But, you know, 500,000 jobs is a lot. So she’ll go to a Walmart and, you know, many of the great companies, and Johnson & Johnson, and they’ll hire large amounts. I think one of them did — I think it was Walmart — did a million people where they train them. And government is in no position to train them. You understand that. Government wouldn’t know where to begin. It’d just be another program that they have that would be a disaster. So she’d go to these — no, no, you can’t — you just can’t do that. The private companies — and then also, it’s very specific. They have very specific needs. One of the problems we have is that we’re having tremendous amounts of companies moving back to the United States, moving into your communities. And the problem they have is — — in many cases, they can’t get help. And now what they’re doing is they’re taking people that didn’t have jobs, and they’re training them — specifically training them. And Ivanka has done that job, and it’s been incredible. In the State of the Union Address, I called on Congress to support my plan to offer vocational and technical education in every high school. True. And I love the term “vocational schools,” because, to me, it says it. I mean, when I went to school, I had people. And one person in particular, he wasn’t very good as a student, but he could, after hours, take apart a motor or an engine of a car. And he could strip it blindfolded, put it back together in 15 minutes. It was the most incredible thing. I said, “This is your real ability.” He just had an ability that was extraordinary. Not for sitting there, writing out tests, but for doing things like that, which are, frankly, just as important and high-paying jobs. They’re really high-paying jobs. And I love the name “vocational school.” When I was growing up, we used to — Edison Vocational School, where they’ll train them for, you know, cars and for bricklaying and for plumbing and all the things that there’s tremendous talent involved. And it was incredible. You don’t see that. Now they call them “junior colleges.” And you don’t really — as junior colleges, you don’t really know what that means. What is a junior college? What does it mean? So we’re getting back to the word “vocational.” I thought it was very important. And it’s something that they’re very proud of. And I would be very proud also. You know, people have that tremendous ability, and we don’t allow them to use it. We want to help every American acquire cutting-edge skills that they need for the jobs today and for tomorrow. To put more money in American pockets, we’ve launched the groundbreaking regulatory reduction campaign by cutting regulations — — yeah. Yeah. By cutting regulations on one of the most exciting things that happened. If you look at the other side, they want to get rid of all energy. You know, “Let’s — let’s put up windmills all over your communities.” Right? “Let’s have windmills all over the place and solar.” I love solar, but it’s not powerful enough to power these massive factories and plants that we have being built all over. But by cutting regulations on American energy — for example, we’re massively driving down energy prices — you see that happening — unless it’s an area or a community where they’re not allowing that to happen, in which case — New York as an example: We’re unable to build a pipeline through New York State, where they’d love the jobs of doing the pipeline. And because of that, New England has very, very high energy prices. We could cut the energy prices in New York and New England down by half — less than half, if they would allow. And we’re fighting them very hard, and I think we’ll be successful. But if they’d allow a pipeline to go through, we would cut the prices of energy down by half, and even more so than that. It’s a terrible thing. It’s a very unfair thing to the rest of the country. The American energy revolution is now saving the typical family of four an average of $2,500 per year. And I will say this: We are now energy independent. How nice is that? Energy independent. Energy independent. That’s why you don’t see all those ships going out to the straits and coming back, and they keep looking for our ships. “What happened to the USA ships? I don’t see them too much anymore.” But we’re energy independent. And we’re the largest producer of energy, by far, in the world. It wasn’t that way not so long ago. So. And we approved the Keystone XL Pipeline. You know that. And we approved — right? — the Dakota Access Pipeline. I came in — those two, I did them in my first week or less. And it was 48,000 jobs, but more importantly, it’s actually environmentally better. You’re taking it under the soil. Nobody even sees it. You’re under the soil as opposed to trains and the problems that can happen. So it’s been a tremendous thing. But with us today is Rebecca Long, the commissioner of Lee County, New Mexico. Oh I love New — how am I doing in New Mexico? I hear we’re going to win New Mexico. We’re going to win New Mexico. Rebecca, please come forward and say a little bit about what’s happening on the energy boom. And your state is right up at the forefront, and we’re very proud of New Mexico. Now, if I don’t win it, I won’t say that. I’ll take it. I’ll come back and I’ll say next year, “I was only kidding about New Mexico.” Please. Hi, how are you? It’s my honor. Thank you very much. Good. That’s great. Thank you. Wow. That’s great. Wow. That’s fantastic. Thank you very much. Wow. Good job. Now, again, we’re not getting political, because I refuse to be — do that, but — — you know, Rebecca, that if Bernie or one of these characters get in, you can close up your energy. You do know. They have little things like, “We don’t want petroleum products.” Well, that’s a lot of people. That’s a lot. We’re also building your wall right along the border to stop people from coming into our country illegally. Right? You know that. Say hello to the people of New Mexico. I’ll be there soon. We’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that decimated so many of your communities. You know that. You know it probably better than anybody in the country, how bad it was. We have successfully renegotiated new trade deals with South Korea and Japan, who were really ripping us. South Korea — remember, Hillary Clinton — the great Hillary Clinton — she said, “No, no we want this deal. It will produce 250,000 jobs.” And she was right, for South Korea. They produced — — it’s true. It got South Korea 250. So you can’t say she was wrong. She wasn’t misleading us. She said, “250,000.” It was a horrible deal, and we’ve totally renegotiated that with South Korea. Now it’s a good deal for the United States and a fairer deal. You know, it’s — that was a ridiculous deal. In January, we finally ended the NAFTA catastrophe, and I signed the brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law, the USMCA. And we also took the strongest-ever action to stand up to China’s trade abuses, which, frankly, for years — explain that one, what was happening with China. 500-billion-dollar-a-year deficits. Allowing us to reach a landmark agreement that will deliver vast benefits for our ranchers, growers, manufacturers, farmers. Working closely with local officials, we’ve taken bold action to curb the opioid epidemic, which is such a problem no matter where you come from. And for the first in 31 years, we actually went down a little bit. We went down. Some communities are down 17, 18, 19 percent. One is down 21 percent. But still, it is a massive, massive problem for our country. Drug overdose problems are just a terrible, terrible problem. And it’s a world problem too. It’s — no matter where you go, it’s — it’s pretty tough stuff. And frankly, I should say, no matter where you go unless they have really, really strong measures against the dealers, in which case they have no problem. I wonder how that works. How does that work, Mary? When you go to a country where they have very, very stringent — unbelievably stringent, like probably we can’t do in our country — they have no drug problem. You go into China, you say. “How’s your drug problem?” They don’t even know — President Xi doesn’t even know what you’re talking about. “We have no drug problem.” They have quick trials. Right? Quick trials. And I won’t even tell you what the punishment is, but let me just say it’s very swift. You go to Singapore — they don’t have a drug problem in Singapore. A lot of money, a lot of everything. Perfectly set up for a drug problem. Everything perfect. But they are very, very tough. And I just don’t know whether or not this country is ready for that, whether or not it can do it. But the only countries that don’t have a drug problem are countries where the retribution is unbelievably tough. When we work together, we can dramatically improve public safety. It is especially vital that all state and local officials cooperate fully with all requests from our courageous ICE officers. I hope I don’t insult anybody, but the ICE officers are taking people out of your communities by the thousands, including MS-13 gang members. If you didn’t have them — and your local enforcement doesn’t want to do that. And these are seriously tough, crazy people, in many cases, and we’re getting them the hell out of our country, and we’re bringing them back to where they came from. And we’re keeping them there and — Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador — so many of these countries. And, you know, in the past administration, they couldn’t bring them back because they’d say, “No, no. You can’t bring them back. Get out. You can’t bring them back.” So they’d fly over; they wouldn’t let them land. They wouldn’t let buses go in with these people. We’d would have to bring them back. They don’t do that with us. With us, they say, “Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Thank you for bringing these wonderful citizens back.” MS-13 — you can have them. And now we bring them back and they take them immediately. And we just have set records for coming through the border. We’re setting records now on not coming through the border. We built 128 miles of wall. We’ve already got 100, and we have some going up in New Mexico just now. But we have 128 miles. And you think that was easy getting that thing for — I could do anything. I can rebuild the military for $2.5 trillion. But if you’re going to spend 10 cents on a wall, it was like you couldn’t do it. They would shut down the country. We actually did shut down the country for a little while, frankly, but we ended up getting the money, and the wall is under construction. We’re building a lot. We’re up to 128 miles, and we’ll have close to 500 miles sometime — pretty early next year. And in the area where we have them, the walls — as you people know, because you’re also people of great common sense. You’re brilliant, but you have great common sense. That’s why you’re doing what you’re doing. At least the good ones do; the bad ones probably don’t, you know. There must be some bad ones in the room, right? But it’s a matter of common — so much of life and so much of government is common sense. But where we have a wall, the numbers just went down to almost zero. Now they go around. That’s why the wall gets longer and longer. But the numbers have been incredible. You know, the Democrats used to say, “We don’t want a wall. We’ll give you drones.” They wanted to give me drones. I said, “What good are drones? They’re going to be flying around in the air watching thousands of people cross the border. What good are drones?” “No, no, we’ll give you technology.” They were saying, “Walls — walls are old-fashioned.” Yeah, two things will never change: a wall and a wheel. Right? A wheel. Come back in 1,000 years; you’re going to have a wheel. Come back in 1,000 years; you’re going to have a wall. They’re probably the only two things that aren’t going to change in life. But it is true, when you think of it. So we have 128. We’re building it rapidly, and it’s exactly what Border Patrol wanted. They did tests on every form of wall you can have. And it’s an expensive wall in terms of — expensive — very expensive per square foot. But it’s the kind of wall we need. We might as well — if we’re going to do it, we might as well do it right. They had a — — they had a big story, two weeks ago, that the wall fell down — my wall fell down. You know, I’m saying how strong it is. I always like to brag about it because it really is. It’s deep set into the ground, surrounded by heavy concrete and steel. It’s actually made of steel on the outside, concrete and rebar inside. You know, it’s got everything. Right? And one of the big newscasters, they said, “The wall fell down.” I said, “Oh, this is bad. I’m building a wall and it falls down — that’s terrible.” So I go, “What the hell happened with the wall?” “Well, sir, they had a tremendous windstorm and we were just setting it in very wet concrete. The concrete had — and we were holding it up as much as we could until the concrete dried. And the wind came at 58 miles an hour, sir, and it blew the wall over. We put it back up, and we held it with cranes.” I said, “You mean you were putting it up and the concrete was soaking wet?” “Yes, sir. We just put it in the concrete, and it fell down.” “Oh.” They didn’t say that. They didn’t say that. They don’t say little things like that, do they? Oh, I don’t know how you put up with the fake news, you people. Americans are safest when we support the heroes of federal, state, and local law enforcement. My administration — they’re incredible people. They do an incredible job. And I’ll tell you what: They’re very much appreciated in our country. You know, you read so many things, but they’re very much appreciated. And ICE has done an incredible job of getting very bad — some very bad people out of your communities. My administration is also reshaping our nation’s approach to mental illness. My budget calls for almost $5 billion to improve access to inpatient mental healthcare through Medicaid. And as you know, county jails were not meant to deal with the mental illness problem. They weren’t. They weren’t. Thank you. Thank you. I didn’t know that that was going to hit such a high note. Really. I mean, that’s incredible. I didn’t know that that was going to be appreciated the way it’s meant to be. But you understand the situation. You understand — the people in this room understand all of the things we’re talking about, better than any people I can imagine, even people in Washington. They don’t — — you know, you’re on the ground. So when you make a statement like that, that’s very meaningful to me when you — when you give it that kind of a response. I wouldn’t have thought it would have had that response. It’s also not compassionate to leave those with mental illness on the streets, and you see that. So we must get Americans the care that they need. From day one, my administration has worked closely with you to overcome natural disasters such as the tornado in Tennessee. Since I took office, 62 percent of counties have received major emergency or disaster declarations, with the federal government committing over $124 billion to support your citizens in very trying times. And we get you the money quickly. We check it. We do what we have to do. But I think everybody in this room would say that you get the money much quicker under our administration than in the past. It used to be unfair. It used to be very unfair, to a point where you really couldn’t even properly do the work. It would take you so long to get the money, you’re afraid to do the work. We get it to you quickly. We’re joined today by Kathryn Starkey of Pasco County Florida. A good place. Kathryn, please come up and share your story about your community and recovering from a very big disaster that I know very well. Thank you. Hi, Kathryn. Thank you very much. Wow, thank you, Kathryn. Thank you very much. Beautiful. And I have to say, Kathryn, that you had two governors — you had Rick Scott, previously, right? And he did a fantastic job. Now your Senator and your current governor, Ron DeSantis. And they would come to my office, say, “President, can we see you just for a minute? Oh, good.” Separately, but very similar, they wanted money. I said, “Well, what do you want?” “We don’t need much. We need a little bit more for the Panhandle,” as an example. And I said, “Oh, good. I love the Panhandle.” They got everything they needed, that I can tell you. But they’d say, “We need another little bit of money.” “How much do you need?” “$500 million more.” “$500 million? That’s a lot. You’ve got it.” But they’d come up — you know, it goes to the Panhandle. It goes to — look, these people — having the right governor in a state is so important. The good ones, they bug me, bug me, bug me. And you have great ones in this country. You have so many great ones. And Governor Lee is a great one, in Tennessee. You have so many — Texas, Greg Abbott. But Ron DeSantis, the job he’s doing, the job that Rick did as governor, Rick Scott, it’s — it’s so important. If you have the wrong governor, it’s not helpful. Yes. Absolutely. But if you have the wrong governor, you know understand that better than anybody: If you have the wrong governor, it doesn’t work. But they would come up and they’d want to get everything set and done. And they need it fast because you have to rebuild your community. And debris was the biggest thing, Kathryn, right? Debris. Debris was the biggest thing. They’d bid it out, and they’d have bids that were so crazy. One would be very low and the others would be very high, and they weren’t allowed, through red tape, to use the low one. And I worked it so that they could use the low one. And, you know, we did a lot of great things. But Florida really has done — they have done a fantastic job. Thank you very much. That was beautiful. Everyone here is devoted — and, really, a devoted public servant. You love your neighbors, you love your country, you love this nation like nobody else. Every day, we’re working with you to build a country where every town is booming, every community is prospering, and every child has the chance to reach the American Dream. As long as I am President, the federal government is on your side 100 percent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You will always have a very important seat at the table, and you will always find an open door at the White House. Many of you have come to the White House, and we’ve had a lot of good discussions. No matter what community you represent, we’re all united by our loyalty to the citizens we serve and the knowledge that America is the most exceptional nation anywhere in the history of the world. To every county leader — and it’s so brilliant to have you here because you really are the people that know it the best. And I really know that much more from my previous life. This life is different, to put it mildly. I thought it would be easier; it’s actually much tougher. But I know it from my previous life. I know the talent that you have, the insight that you have. It’s really incredible, and I want to thank you for your unbelievable service. Thank you for your selfless devotion, and thank you for fighting for a glorious future of American greatness. God bless you all. God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Today, we are meeting with the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies — the biggest in the world, most prestigious, the ones that get down to the bottom line very quickly — to discuss how the federal government can accelerate the development of vaccines and therapeutic treatments for the coronavirus. We want to welcome Dr. Deborah Birx. And Dr. Birx has been to the White House a lot over her career, and she’s now going to be here working with Mike Pence and everybody full time, and we appreciate it. We appreciate it very much, Dr. Birx. And a real expert in her field. And if you’d like, you can ask her a couple of questions when we’re finished. We work to — we’re working very hard to expedite the longer process of developing a vaccine. We’re also moving with maximum speed to develop therapies so that we can help people recover as quickly as possible. We have a lot of recovery going on. We want to see if we can advance that. It’s likely that therapies will be available before a vaccine is actually ready, and we’ll seek to bring all effective treatments to market as soon as possible. Some very good work has been done on the vaccine, however, and they have some good progress. And you’ll be able to ask a couple of questions of the folks here. We’re also working with Congress to ensure that America has what it needs to respond to this challenge — this great challenge. But everybody is responding very well. Since the start of the outbreak, my administration has taken the most aggressive action in history to protect our citizens, including closing our borders very early — a lot earlier than people wanted us to do. And that turned out to be a good decision. I ordered sweeping travel restrictions, increased travel advisory levels, established screening measures, and imposed historic quarantines. We have quarantines all over the country — a lot of them. The coronavirus shows the importance of bringing manufacturing back to America so that we are producing, at home, the medicines and equipment and everything else that we need to protect the public’s health. And I’ve been talking about this for a long time. That process has already started. It started long before we ever knew about this. We want to make certain things at home. We want to be doing our manufacturing at home. It’s not only done in China; it’s done in many other places, including Ireland, and a lot of places make our different drugs and things that we need so badly. And it’s not good to be dealing with one or two or three countries. And we do very little at home, and we’re going to start doing it at home, and we’ve been talking about that for a long time. And a lot of the drug companies, because of what we’ve done in terms of incentives and taxes, they’re heading back here anyway. The coronavirus shows the importance of bringing all of that manufacturing back to America, and we will have that started. It’s already started, frankly. It started about a year ago. The White House Coronavirus Task Force, led by Vice President Mike Pence, has been meeting daily and coordinating closely with the state and local governments. Mike had a call today with 53 governors, and I heard it was a very good call, and everybody is very well coordinated. And the governors and the states — all of them; I can’t think of an exception — they’ve been really working closely with us. It’s been — it’s been a very good — a very good relationship. We will confront this challenge together, and we will continue to do exactly what we’re doing. And we’re going to be very successful. A lot of things are happening. A lot of very exciting things are happening, and they’re happening very rapidly. So, with that, I’d like to introduce Mike. And you can say a little bit as to your calls and some of the things that are happening today. And, Alex, maybe you can give a little update and then we’ll go around the room and people can introduce themselves if that’s okay. And the supplemental is moving along very rapidly. Everyone wants to get that done. It’s moving along quickly. Emma, please. Thank you, Emma. Beautiful. Thank you very much. Please. Anthony, go ahead. I’d like you to say something anyway. Thank you, Tony, very much. Bob? Thank you, Bob. Please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. John? Go ahead. Please. When do you think you could have the vaccine? When do you think you’d be able to have it, start producing it? Right. Okay. Thank you very much. Lenny? That means you’d be able to use the vaccine that early? So that process would be faster than John’s? So this would be a combination of a vaccine and also it will — to put it in a different way — make you better, quicker. That’s true. Thank you very much. Thanks, Len. Appreciate it. Please. What is your timing then? What would you say? So you’re talking over the next few months, you think you could have a vaccine. And how long would that take? All right. So you’re talking within a year — Well, but, Lenny is talking about two months, right? A couple of months, right? I mean, I like the sound of a couple of months better, I must be honest with you. Ready to use when, would you say? Ready to use. Next season? So quickly. What do you say to that, Lenny? That’s a good idea. Good. Okay. Thank you very much. Daniel? Great. Good. Let’s talk about that. Incredible, what they’ve done — — with HIV, incredible. So we’re saying 10 years, but now we’re into 9 years, because it could have been started earlier, and somebody else didn’t start it earlier. But we started it right away. And I’m now seeing — I started off saying “10 years” and now I’m down to 9 years. Do you think by the end of nine years, HIV is where? But can you imagine? It will eliminated in this country. That’s such a great thing. If you remember back — if you remember back 10 years ago, how horrible that was, and a little beyond the 10 years. And now — To think about what you’ve — what’s happened. So, Daniel, let’s talk about this. So you have a medicine that’s already involved with the coronaviruses. And now you have to see if it’s specifically for this. You can know that tomorrow. Can’t you? Any response yet? Anything here? Anything here? Would you go to Washington State where it seems to have problems? I think it’s a great idea. Yeah. Will you go to specifically the nursing home where they had an outbreak? When will that take place? When do you think? If Tony is involved, it’ll be tomorrow morning. Right, Tony? That’s good. You’ve already built the facility to make — This would be tremendous news if that works. Because you’re there. I mean, you’re there. You have the plant, you have everything ready. That’s very exciting. Get it done, Daniel. Don’t disappoint us, Daniel. Do you understand? Great company. Really great. Doctor, perhaps you’d like to say a few words? Please. Thank you. Great. You’re going to do a fantastic job. Thank you, Doctor. Please. Yeah. So do you expect to be dealing with each other a little bit? You’re competitors, but in this case, it’s different. This is something we want to get done very quickly. Do you expect to be sharing your own capabilities with Pfizer and everybody else? Good. I agree. We would appreciate that. Do you see that happening? Because I notice you have a few different variants of what we’re talking about. Do you see that happening where maybe there are different either therapeutics or vaccines, or both, where you use combinations of each, maybe in different areas? I think it’s fantastic. I love — Yeah, that’s fantastic. Thank you very much. That’s, really, very exciting. Please. We can give you an area, too. No, we can. I mean, you take — you take a look at Seattle again. We can give you an area. If you don’t mind. No, thank you very much. You’ll have our help. Thank you. Please, doctor. That’s fantastic. So do you have different concepts and methods than, you know, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson? All great companies. Are you having different — some seem to be faster than others. And others — they do seem to be different concepts. And that’s different from the others? So can you have it ready for next season, any of you? I mean, would you say, for the next season? That would be the goal? It seems to be very seasonal, right? You’ve got to make sure it works. And it doesn’t hurt. Right. I agree. I agree. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great company. Thank you. Would you like to say something? Good. Thank you. Please. On this? On corona? So what do you think in terms of timing? What do you do think? So those are unheard of speeds, I think. Right? Pretty much. We’ll make it very easy for you. Those are — and we have to be very safe. But those are unheard of speeds. Go ahead, please. But you work with the other companies also? Okay. Dr. Stephen Hahn is the new head of the FDA for those of you that don’t know. He’s one of the most respected people in the country. And this is man we wanted. And this is the man we got. You didn’t know you were going to be hit with this your first month, right? Been here for a couple of months and this was pretty big. Deborah, would you like to say something? It is very exciting and the speed is very exciting too. Anybody else have anything to say? Anybody? That’s fantastic. They move rapidly. Media, would you like to ask any questions of any of the geniuses around the table? Well, I guess the market is up today. Our country is very strong, economically, as you know. This was a — something that came out of China that was a big surprise to the world. It happened just a few weeks ago and I’m sure the Fed is looking at it; I hope the Fed is looking at it. They should be. But a lot of these central banks are looking at it for stimulus. And one thing I want to add, we keep talking about “for America,” but really, we’re looking at — for a cure for the whole world because this is a world cure, not just for the United States. We want to take care of the United States. But whatever we do is going to inure to the benefit of the world. So we want to do that. And fortunately, your — some of your companies are so large you can handle that. But you work together, thereby making it even better. So we appreciate that. We would love to have you work together on this, get it done, and get it done safely and quickly. But I think — I know we’re in very strong shape. Very strong shape, financially. And, you know, I have to tell you, I came into the room not expecting to hear quite what I’ve heard, but a lot of work has already been done. We’ve been encouraging them for the last few weeks. I mean, literally, from the first day when we shut it down, when we shut down the border, so to speak. We shut it down — China. Something we didn’t like to do, but we made a good decision. But we also called some of the companies around the table and said, “Get going. Just in case, get going.” And we’re very proud of the work that some of them have done. Some of them were very advanced already on this particular coronavirus. So we appreciate it. That’s tremendous news. And I think the speed is a lot greater than a lot of people would have thought. Well, I don’t know. I think they’re so rich. I know the companies very well. Some of them are so rich I think they can actually loan money to the federal government. They don’t — — they don’t need money. They need time. I think what they need more than anything else — Daniel, you might tell me, but I think what you need is FDA and Tony have to help you get through the process as quickly as possible, the bureaucratic stuff. And we don’t have bureaucrats here. We have people that really know how to get it done, between Tony and Bob and Steven. They’ll get you folks through very, very quickly. Well, I think they should have had a meeting already. So, you know, I think they should have. And the central banks are going to be talking about various things tomorrow but we’ll see what happens. But I think they should have had a meeting already. I don’t know what takes them so long. I’ll see what happens. Let’s see what happens tomorrow. They’re buying what? Alex, what would you say? Yes, we are. certain countries where they have more of a breakout. We are. You know what those countries are; I don’t have to say it. But we are doing that and we’ve already done it, as you know, with three countries, in addition to China. So we will be doing that, yes. I don’t think you’ll need that because I really think we’re in, you know, extremely good shape. We’re prepared for anything and we could always do that at a later date if we need, it but I don’t think we need that at this stage. You know, interestingly, we were discussing — and a question I get asked a lot by people is, on average, you lose from 26,000 to 70,000 or so and even some cases more from the flu. We lose — we have deaths of that per year. Worldwide, it’s hundreds of thousands of deaths from the common flu. And they ask, you know, what’s the difference and how does this differ, and I guess there are things that are similar and things that are different. Every one of them is different. It might not be a bad question to ask. Because I get that all the time. So, so far we have six here. You have, in other countries, very — I mean, China, obviously, got hit the hardest. I noticed that South Korea is hit very hard. Italy is being hit very hard. But I — I would like to maybe know — because I — I am oftentimes asked — we average, I suspect — Tony, I think you said from around 26-, 27,000, up to 60- or 70,000 deaths per year. That’s a lot of deaths. And here we’re talking about a much smaller range. Now, hopefully, it stays at a much smaller range. And, again, we’re prepared for anything. Could I ask you: Any of you, if you’d like to answer that question, where would the public, what would the public think when you have so many — and that’s taken routinely. And I was shocked to hear this. You know, three, four weeks ago, I said, “Well, how many people die a year from the flu?” And, in this country, I think last year was 36- or 37,000 people. And I’m saying, “Wow, nobody knew that information.” Worldwide, you just multiply it out times the world, right? So what is the difference, Daniel? We would have to up our research on the flu — on the common flu. Good. Doctor? Including — including, Tony, they have to maybe — we have to step up our work on the flu because when you lose that many people, it’s something. Fantastic. Because I notice every year they say a different vaccine. They have a little different, a little — and then, you know, I hear numbers that are not great: 60 percent, 70 percent coverage — success. And yet, I hear numbers that are better than that with respect to corona. You think you can really knock it out and that’s because you know specifically what it is, I suspect. So that’s impressive. What do you think, Lenny? Right. But the same vaccine could not work. You take a solid flu vaccine — you don’t think that would have an impact or much of an impact on corona? Probably not. That’s separate. It seems to me, just based on what you said and also what the other folks said from great companies –companies I know very well from just seeing, you know, what they do — and I find it very interesting; I have for a long time — it would seem to me that you already know pretty much where you’re going and where you’re headed and what the answer is going to be. It would seem that, Steve. Doesn’t it seem — you seem to know what the answer is to this; you have to get it done. Or is that too optimistic a statement? By the way, that would be a great thing if you could do that. Just aside from this meeting, if you could do that, that would be a great thing. Does anybody else have anything to say, please? Well, I want to just thank you all very much for being here and it sounds — I’m very — it’s a very optimistic meeting. I didn’t realize you were that far advanced and you’ll get together if you have to. You’ll deal with Tony and Bob and you’ll deal with Stephen and get it done. We need it. We want it fast. Okay? I don’t know what the time will be. I don’t think they know what the time will be. I’ve heard very quick numbers — a matter of months — and I’ve heard pretty much a year would be an outside number. So I think that’s not a bad — that’s not a bad range. But if you’re talking about three to four months, in a couple of cases, and a year in other cases — wouldn’t you say, Doctor, would that be about right? Well, you have the greatest companies in the world sitting around the table. I mean, Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer and all of the companies — Gilead — you have all of these great companies and that’s what they’re saying. So I think that — Do you think that’s right? Well, I think treatment, in many ways, might be more exciting. Well, you know, Tony, I think that’s interesting because the concept of treatment, in a certain way, especially when you have people that are, you know, looking for treatment, they’ve already got — they’re beyond the vaccine stage, that would be very exciting. Right. So — so then what would be your timing for treatment? Therapeutics, commonly known as — but I call it — what would be your number for treatment? Fantastic. So the treatment, I mean, just for the media — so the treatment element of it goes faster than the vaccine element of it, which, in my opinion, in this case, would be better. Go ahead, please. So it could be used as a treatment. Somebody is sick, they have the problem. Tony — it could be used — when do you think it could be used? How good is that? Hear that, Jeff? That’s good even by your standpoint, Jeff. He just got back. He just got back from the Congo. And that’s dedication. He was — that was not an easy trip, was it? Well, I want to thank everybody in this room. Mike, go ahead. That’s fantastic. And if anybody delays you, please call me. And if they don’t, just call Tony and Bob. All right? Call Alex. Thirteen hundred? They must have heard about this meeting. Who’s talking outside? No, this a very optimistic meeting. Look, I know optimism and not optimism and pess- — the worst pessimism. And I will tell you, the whole thing with therapeutics, to me, is very exciting. And, obviously, vaccine. But therapeutics is very exciting, especially when you’re so far advanced. That’s great. That’s really great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Say hello to everyone. Thank you everybody. Well, thank you very much. We’re going to North Carolina. We have a big gathering tonight, to put it mildly — many, many people. And it’ll be a lot of fun. And, much more importantly, we had a great meeting just now with the pharmaceutical companies. A lot of you probably saw the results of the meeting. But I think the results will be spectacular. The stock market went up — I’m not sure, it may be a record, and I’ve never seen anything quite like it. But the stock market, I think, had a record day today — up. Was that a record? Thank you. And so, we’re very excited about that. Our country is in great shape. We’re well organized. We have great people. And you just met a lot of them. And, again, the great pharmaceutical companies, they’re — they have already been at it. We’ve already spoken to them. I’ve been speaking to them for three weeks. So, let’s see what happens and I’ll see you in North Carolina. No, I’m going probably over the next 90 days. I’m so busy, I can’t do it. Walter Reed, probably. We do a physical every year. No, I think it’s rigged against Bernie, but maybe he’ll pull it through. It was rigged against me four years ago, and I pulled it through. I think it’s rigged against Bernie. You see what’s happening with — Klobuchar just, I heard — just — something happened there. And — Yeah. Yeah, well, he just — Buttigieg just went out and said something. And probably, they’ll say, “Hey, look, if I win, I’ll put you in the administration.” That’s called “quid pro quo,” right? Quid pro quo. And they probably said, “Hey, listen, if I win, I’ll give you an endorsement, but will you take me in the administration?” Now, I’m sure, like — I’m sure nothing like that has ever happened, right? But that’s the way it seems to go. But, no, it’s rigged against Bernie. There’s no question about it. Sounds like it’s a little bit unfair. I’ll see you in North Carolina. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. It’s my honor to have the President of Colombia with us. We have many things to discuss, including borders and trade and, unfortunately, drugs and drug trafficking. And we’re going to have a good, long session. This was scheduled very quickly, over the weekend, and we look forward to meeting. We’re going to have representatives on both sides. Many things to talk about. And thank you very much, Mr. President. We’ve been working very well together on drugs and on trafficking — beyond drugs, trafficking and drugs, and trafficking and lots of other things. Unfortunately, human trafficking, which has become a very big problem. Tonight, I’ll be going — as you know, we’ll be going to North Carolina. We have a big rally scheduled, and that should be, I think, terrific. It’s — thousands of people are already out there waiting. So we’re going to have, hopefully, a good time. We’re going to make a lot of different predictions tonight also. Working very hard with CDC, with everybody in the — on a subject that has become a very big subject. The — our country is doing very well. Our professionals are doing, really, an incredible job. We’re also working with other countries to help them because they really have a fear of the unknown. We’re working very much with a lot of other countries on — including Colombia — but we’re working with a lot of other countries on helping them with respect to this problem. And, again, we’re doing very well. Some additional people were reported. They’re in good shape, but we have some additional people that were reported. Not very many in the United States. So we will be having a news conference later. I’m also meeting with the pharmaceutical companies later on this afternoon. We have a big meeting with the biggest companies. Really, the most powerful companies — hopefully the smartest companies — anywhere in the world when it comes to drugs and vaccines, because we’re talking about a vaccine. Maybe a cure; it’s possible. So we’ll see about that. But we’re talking about a vaccine. And they’re moving along very quickly. All of the pharmaceutical companies are moving along very quickly. But you’ll be invited to a part of that meeting, so we’ll see you a little bit later on in the afternoon. And thank you all very much. Thank you. Well, you’re going to have to spray. If you don’t spray, you’re not going to get rid of them. So you have to spray, with regard to the drugs in Colombia. Yeah. Yes, we will. We’re talking about Venezuela. One of the things we’re talking about is Venezuela. A big subject for us. And they’re treating the people of Venezuela unbelievably badly. They don’t have water, they don’t have food. They don’t have anything. And we are talking about that. That’s a big — that’s a big topic of discussion. Yes, Steve? Yes, please. Well, we’re talking. You know, this meeting was set up before, and that was about drug pricing. This meeting was set up a long time ago with the pharmaceutical companies. And that meeting was about drug pricing, because we brought the numbers down last year — first time in 51 years that the drug prices, prescription, have come down. And I have a meeting scheduled on drug prices, but now we’re going to make another subject and that will be — probably the first subject of that has to do with the vaccine, how are they doing. Well, that’s what we’re going to find out. We’ll know that. Well, we’ve asked them to accelerate whatever they’re doing, in terms of a vaccine. Absolutely. Well, these were set up a long time ago. And others are. I mean, you could ask that to the Democrats because they’re having a lot of rallies. They’re all having rallies. That’s what they’re doing. They’re campaigning. I think it’s very safe. Yeah. I think it’s very safe. Say it? Well, we’re going to find out. But we’re getting out. We want to get out. We had good meetings with the Taliban. And we are going to be leaving, and we’re going to be bringing our soldiers back home. We’ve been there for almost 20 years. It’s a long time. We’ve done a great job in terms of getting rid of terrorists. Now it’s up to other countries to get rid of those terrorists. Well, we’re going to meet. We have discussions to go. But we’ve made a lot of progress. Okay? Thank you. Thank you all very much. See you later. Well, I want to thank you, Matt. And I’m thrilled to back at CPAC with the thousands of proud American patriots who love our country, respect our flag — — honor our history, uphold our laws, protect our Constitution, and always put America first. Right? Been a long time. We had a great night yesterday in South Carolina. That was incredible. We filled up a stadium like you haven’t seen. The stadium was packed and thousands of people outside. And I saw the competitors — our competitors. They’d have like two people on a street corner. That’s — it’s incredible what’s going on. This is a movement like — honestly, like nobody has ever seen before. We say that — we say that — — and, you know, if it wasn’t so, the fake news media would be all over us, right? They’d say “It wasn’t so. He exaggerated.” I say it all the time. They never change it. You know, every once in a while, you see somebody who did well — let’s say “well” in New Hampshire or did well — not even win it — in Iowa, and the whole life of that person is made because we won the election. We did well in those places. Sit down, everybody, if you want. Sit down. We won the election. So it’s great. And I came here and I got to know Matt and Mercedes early on and I made a speech, before I thought about doing this. I said, “Would you speak?” I was very famous then, too. I guess more famous now. But I was very famous, and I made a speech and they liked the speech. They said, “You ought to run for President.” I said, “No thanks.” You remember that, Matt? “You ought to run for President.” We had a big crowd. And it was — “The Apprentice” was doing so well. It was like a hot, to put it mildly, show. And Matt said, “You ought to run for President.” I said, “Let me give it a little thought.” And a couple of years later, we said, “Let’s do it.” And then they said — — I never forget one of the people, respected guy, Charles Krauthammer. Right? He said on — well, this isn’t so good, but he said on Fox — he said, “No, why would he do this? You have 17 of the most talented professionals ever assembled that are running. Why would he run? He’s not going to run, and if he does, he’s only doing it for fun.” You think this has been fun? Does anybody — — does anybody think — Mercedes, do think this has been fun? I don’t think — you know. This has been just a ball. We’ve had a ball. But you know what? You know what? We’re doing so well and we’re doing so much. No administration has ever done what we’ve done in the first three years. Nobody. With tax cuts and Supreme Court judges and 218 judges — roughly, 218 including D.C. But together, we’re defeating the radical socialist Democrats, the fake news media, the crooked politicians, and the hate-filled left-wing mob. And I told you I was going to be nice today. See? I said, “Let’s be nice today.” It’s hard to be nice when they treat you so badly, right? Only a fool is nice when they treat you so badly. We’re defending our faith, our values, our heritage, our borders, our rights, and our God-given freedoms. We’re doing that. This is an incredible — look at all those people back there. This place has grown. Look. Wow. Wow. That’s fantastic. I don’t know who they are, Matt, but they must be very special, this little group over here. For Matt to block out half the arena for this group of people. I’m trying to figure out, who are they? At first, I thought they were the fake news. I said, “It’s too bad they such a good location.” I don’t know who you are but you’re very important. It’s true. Very important people. We’re exposing the corruption of the Washington Democrats and we’re draining the Washington swamp. I just didn’t know how dirty it would be. I didn’t know how deep it would be when I said, “Drain the swamp.” For a long time — you know, I was given that expression. A speechwriter gave it to me. He said, “Drain the swamp.” I said, “That’s so hokey.” I said, “That’s the worst. I don’t want to use it.” Anyway, it ends up in one of the speeches. I said, “We will drain the swamp.” Right? The place went crazy. I said, “Let’s try it again.” And we did it again and the place went crazy. Now, here’s the bad part, I never knew the swamp was so bad. It’s really bad. But we’re winning, and we’re winning not easy, but we’re winning. A lot of dirty people. A lot of very bad people. A lot of bad people. And I think — I think justice will be had. I do believe that, or I wouldn’t be very happy right now. We got through everything. We’ve got through — they gave us the Mueller hoax. They gave us the Russia, Russia, Russia crap. They gave us the one phone call that was a perfect phone call. “Oh, let’s get him out of office for that phone call.” But, you know, the Republicans stuck together, except Romney of course. You know, Romney. Lowlife. Lowlife. Except Romney, they stuck together. And even him, I got half a vote, so, you know. See, I say — I was thinking, because he did actually vote one . He couldn’t do it all, you know, because he wanted to get some nice free publicity for himself. But it was 52 and a half out of 53 votes. True. I guess you can say that, right? Fifty two and a half, right? So think of it: The Republicans were fantas- — I tell you what. That’s when you din out who your friends are, really. It is. And we had 52 and a half votes. And in the House we had 107 — think of it — 107 to nothing with the Republicans. 107 to nothing. And we got three Democrats. And one came over and left the Democrat Party: Van Drew. Jeff Van Drew. And really, together, we’re preserving this exceptional nation that our ancestors fought and died to build. We are making America greater than ever before. We really are. I think it’s going to be greater than ever before with what we’re doing with our military and what we’re doing also to get rid of very bad people. We have such bad people, and they’re not — they’re not people that love our country. We’re getting people that really love our country, and it’s so important. And if I wasn’t able to fulfill that, no matter what other things we’ve done, I would not consider this journey to be a success. So just remember that. One of my most important promises to the American people was to end America’s long-running wars in the Middle East. American forces — and we’re all warriors, folks, but 19 years. I see the people; I go over and I say hello to those incredible soldiers over at Walter Reed. What talent you have at Walter Reed. Those doctors, by the way, they have to be the best in the world — what they can do. And I see the arms and the legs missing, and I see what’s happened to some of these incredible, beautiful people, and I see the strength, the spirit — the spirit that they have. Most of them — I mean, even if they can’t walk, if they’ve lost both legs, they want to go back. “Sir, we want to go back. I want to go back.” And it’s just incredible to see it. And I’m going to mention it a little bit later, but, you know, we knocked out Soleimani, the father of the roadside bomb. We killed him and al-Baghdadi. And al-Baghdadi. Soleimani was — Soleimani was the — they called him “the father of the roadside bomb.” He thought it was great. “Oh, the great bomb.” And, you know, he thought it was great. It kept getting bigger and more sophisticated. One young man, he said, “My last day — it was my last day in Afghanistan.” And they had the mine detectors. And he said, “I trusted this man with my life. He was the best. I’ve never seen anything like it. He could detect those. We felt so safe.” But, unfortunately, his last day, they made them out of plastic so you couldn’t detect them, and it went off. Killed the man who was the detector, and badly, badly injured a lot of people, and he was one of them. And he said, “Think of it, sir.” I said, “Why did it go off?” He said, “Because they made it out of plastic, and the plastic doesn’t get detected by the metal detector.” And that was the last day, and he lost his legs. But we took that son of a bitch out, didn’t we? It should have been done a long time ago. That should have been done a long time ago. That should have been done a long time ago. And al-Baghdadi, he’s the father of ISIS, and we defeated ISIS in the Middle East. We have defeated 100 percent of the caliphate. But we said to the Europeans, “Hey, take your soldiers.” We killed many, many terrorists. When I took over, by the way, it was a mess. There was so much. If they — I hate to say this, Republicans, but they had maps and it was all red. Red meant ISIS. I hate to say it. I said, “Let’s change the color.” I actually did change the color. But they showed me maps and large portions of Iraq and Syria, ISIS. And we don’t want them ever to come here. And I had some great people and have some incredible generals. And I had a decision to make, because that was just not — they were not doing it right. And we made the decision, and we took them out. Remember, I got to 98 percent and I said, “All right, now I can bring our people home.” “Sir…” And then what happened is the press; they didn’t care. But they went crazy. “He didn’t complete the job.” I was at 98 percent, Matt. They said, “He didn’t complete the job.” I said, “General, complete the job.” And they completed the job. But the Europeans should be helping us, because many of those people that we’re guarding now — thousands and thousands of ISIS fighters and others — and many of those people will go home to France and Germany and UK and others. And we say, “Take them.” “No, no, no, we don’t want to them.” See, this is it — we do things for other people and then they forget, our allies. Sometimes our allies treat us worse than our enemies. I hate to say this to you, but sometimes they do. It’s very sad. Did them a big favor, but that’s all right. It’s all working out very well. But we took out al-Baghdadi, who everybody was after. That was — you’d see him all the time speaking with a fan. That was an old picture — he was young. He got older. But they were looking for him for 16 years. And one of the first things I said when I came in is, “You got to find this guy, al-Baghdadi.” “Yes, sir.” All of a sudden, they walk in, they said, “We have him, sir. We’re following him all over the Middle East.” He’d move from place to place to place. “We’re following him, sir.” And then they said, “Sir, we have him.” And I had to give an order and I gave an order. And I’ll tell you what: Sixty-six of the most incredible soldiers you’ve ever seen. They went in on eight helicopters. And, you know, in modern-day warfare, you can watch. I mean, I’m watching it. I’m watching it from the Situation Room. You believe it? It was like — you can’t make a movie like this. For instance, there’s no dog like Conan. No dog. There’s no dog like Conan, right? In fact, Conan, after the operation, was a tremendous success. I mean, they were looking for him for a long time. And it was a lot of violent fighting, and then ultimately we got him. He was in a tunnel, at the end of the tunnel. And Conan was going after him. Conan almost was electrocuted. You know that story. But the guys went after him, and we got him. But you wouldn’t believe how great it felt. And when you saw the professionalism that of these soldiers, I can’t even tell you. There’s — nobody has a military like we have. There’s nobody with the talent that we have. It’s incredible. They got him, and he knew it. He knew it. He knew it. As soon as he heard that first little explosion — that took them about three seconds — that blew the hell out of the wall. I said, “Why don’t they go through the front door?” He said, “Sir, you go through the front door, you got a lot of bullets coming at you.” They went through a solid concrete wall. They put stuff up, boom. So fast. So now they’re shooting the other guys from behind. That’s much better, right? Guys are saying, “Who’s that? Who’s that?” Guys were unbelievable. You don’t have a movie like that. And Conan actually — Conan was given more press than your President — I’m telling you. It was like about a half-a-day story. If somebody else would have done it, it would have been the greatest thing to ever happen. But that’s all right. I do it for a different reason. I do it because we have to, to keep ourselves safe. I do it also for all of the people that they killed and wounded. Right? They killed and wounded a lot of people. But American forces cannot be the policemen for the entire world. We’re all over the world. And a lot of times, we’re not even appreciated. It’s taken for granted. We can’t be the policemen for the world and the democracy builders. We just can’t do that for every nation that seems to have difficulty, especially for those nations that don’t appreciate what we do — and there are many of them. Many of them. And that goes with trade also. We’ve changed the whole thing around. Their job is to be secure, and my job is to make sure that we’re secure and to defend our country first. Our country. Today, the United States — — for years, they’ve been trying to do this, and today the United States signed a deal with the Taliban so that we can hopefully begin the immediate process of finally bringing our troops back home. Nineteen years. Nineteen years where they’re — thank you. And as you know, others wanted to do it. We got it done and just signed it. And I want to thank a lot of people. We really have to thank — you know who we have to thank? The families and those incredible people that lost their lives, to start off with, okay? Those incredible families — I’ve gotten to know so many families. And we have to thank our wounded warriors that came home missing limbs and serious, serious things. Our great wounded warriors. We’re taking good care of them, too. And I want to just thank our military because, you know, we’ve been, really, a police force there for the last long time. And we’re not supposed to be a police force. We’re supposed to be fighting soldiers. And we could win that war very easily if we wanted to lose — kill a million people that have nothing to do with it, that don’t know anything about us. And it’s really a great feeling. I saw it. I watched the ceremony today, early in the morning, on our television. And Mike Pompeo, Secretary. State. Secretary of Defense Esper is doing a great job. So Pompeo and Esper were actually in different locations signing with different groups. And pretty complicated deal, I have to be honest. But in exchange for the Taliban’s action against al Qaeda and other terrorists who could threaten us, we’re prepared to begin those force withdrawals. And if the Taliban and the Afghan government live up to their commitments — and they may or they may not, but I think we have a lot of reason why they will. I think they will. That means that the longest war in American history, by far — it’s not even close — will be over. And again, the agreement was made possible by the extraordinary bravery of our — of our American warriors. The sacrifice of these incredible people and their allies. And I want to also thank — I will say this: NATO came in and Secretary General Stoltenberg of NATO. You know, we had 28 — essentially 28 — countries participating in this, and they’re very happy to be out. They’re very happy to be — soon to be doing other things. And I’ll say this for the Taliban: They’re great fighters. You know that. Obviously, they’re great fighters. All you have to do is ask the Soviet Union, “Are they great fighters?” “They are great fighters.” But they — they’re tired also. They — this is 19 years. Nineteen years. So, I’m very happy to announce that this group in particular — it’s just, sort of — I should say we scheduled it for our CPAC day. You know? We scheduled it for CPAC, because what better place? But we salute those who gave their lives, and we salute all of those incredible people. And after years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation and taking care of our own American citizens. It’s time, right? It’s time. You remember recently when I took the soldiers out of Syria, and everyone said, “Well we have to protect the border between Turkey and Syria.” I said, “Why? Why? What does it have to do with us? They’ve been fighting for 1,000 years. What does it have to do with us? Why are we protecting the border?” “You can’t do that.” I did it. We created a safe zone. And I did leave a number of soldiers because we kept the oil. There’s oil there, and we kept the oil, if it’s okay. So they say, “He left soldiers there.” No, no, I left soldiers to keep the oil, okay? They don’t want to say that. They like to say, “He kept soldiers there. He — he didn’t tell the truth.” These people are the worst. They are the worst. It would be so much easier for our country if we had a press that told the truth. It would be so much easier. True. Right? It’s true. And we’re also committed to ensuring that those who mean to do us harm as a nation, even as individuals, are denied admission to America. They’re not allowed into our country. And we have some very, very powerful people. Right now our borders are strong. All of the 9/11 hijackers came here on visas, and we’re determined to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Right? And we’re keeping them out. Border security is also health security. In our efforts to keep America safe, my administration has taken the most aggressive action in modern history to control our borders and protect Americans from the coronavirus. Came from China. In the early stages of the foreign outbreak, I ordered sweeping travel restrictions to prevent uncontrolled spread of this disease. I took a lot of heat, because I did it very early. You know, we had never done it before, Matt. Never done it before. And we had never done anything like that before. So not only did we do it, but I did it very early. And that decision has been now given very good grades, like an A-plus- plus-plus. I took a lot of heat, even from my own people. But we did the right thing. The extreme fringes called us “racists” for imposing these critical lifesaving measures. They wanted to let infected people pour into our country. I don’t think they knew how bad it was, in all fairness, but nothing will deter us from protecting the wellbeing of the American people. My job is to protect Americans and also, very crucially, in this case, to protect Americans’ health. And we’ll do that. And we will do it with the vigor. That is why, today, my admin- — — right, thank you. That is why, today, my administration announced new measures to protect Americans to the fullest extent possible. In addition to the existing ban on travel by most Iranian nationals, we’re banning the travel of anyone who has been to Iran in the last 14 days. They’re having a very big outbreak. And I say here and now, if we can help the Iranians — we’re doing certain things for them now — and if we can help the Iranians — we have the greatest healthcare professionals in the world — and if we can help the Iranians with this problem, we are certainly willing to do so. We would love to be able to help them. And all they have to do is ask. We will have great professionals over there. We have the best in the world. And we’re raising the State Department travel advisories for South Korea and Italy, unfortunately, including a level four — that’s the highest: “Do not travel.” It’s a “do not travel” advisory for several areas of both countries. There are two areas of each country that is very heavily infected. And we are urging Americans to exercise increased caution throughout all of Europe. We will do everything in our power to keep the virus, and those carrying the infections, from entering our country. As you know, we took in approximately 40 people; they were Americans. And they may have had it. Some had it, but they will put in quarantine, and it’s working out. Many of them are in good shape right now, and they’re better and going home. It’s time for all Americans to put politics aside and to come together to work for the health, safety, and security of the American people. They’re great people. Because, you know, I watch — and maybe it’s a natural reflex — but I watch — because we have done a great job. I mean, if nothing else, making that very early decision weeks — weeks early. And we’ve done a great job. And I’ve gotten to know these professionals. They’re incredible. And everything is under control. I mean, they’re very, very cool. They’ve done it, and they’ve done it well. Everything is really under control. But when they put a mic in front of a Democrat, and the Democrat said — doesn’t even know what’s going on. “How is Trump doing?” “He’s doing a terrible job.” Well, sadly, I’d probably say the same about them. You know? I guess it’s a natural reflex. “How is Donald Trump doing, Nervous Nancy?” “He’s doing a terrible job. It’s terrible.” Cryin’ Chuck Schumer, I mean, he goes — he sees a mic, he’ll run 200 yards to get to a mic. He always did. In New York, same thing. He’d run hundreds of yards to find a mic. And then he’d start screaming, “He’s doing a terrible job.” What job? “I don’t know. What’s he working on now?” No, we have to be able to do — this is a different kind of a deal. I mean, you know, it’s — we’ve made great deals. We’ve made great trade deals. Great everything. But this is different. We’ve got to be very careful with this stuff. And if we’re doing a good job — and it’s really the professionals — they have to be given a lot of credit for it because a lot of people wouldn’t be able to do it. So we have to make it nonpartisan if we can. In just three short years under my administration, we’ve already achieved unprecedented victories and unrivaled gains for our citizens. As I said in my State of the Union Address, we are in the midst of a “great American comeback.” That’s what is happening. Our economy is roaring, jobs are booming, opportunity is soaring, poverty is plummeting, crime is falling, and America is stronger today than ever before. Stronger today. Our military is incredible. We have rebuilt our incredible U.S. military, revived our industrial might, and restored our standing in the world. America is respected again, respected like never before. Since my election, America has gained 7 million new jobs, 5 million more than government experts projected at the end of the last administration. They were saying the most you could possibly do is 2 million; we did 7 million. I never even said we were going to do 7 million. That’s a lot of jobs. Unemployment has reached the lowest rate in over 51 years. The average unemployment rate for my administration is the lowest for any President in the history of the United States. That’s a good one. That’s a good one. That’s a good one. The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached record lows — all record lows. Every one, lowest ever. Young people have seen their wages increased by 16 percent. A record. And their wages are rising three times faster than those wages. During the last four years of — did you ever hear of this gentleman? — the Obama administration. You ever hear of him? More than 2 million millennials have gotten jobs. We have lifted 10 million people off the welfare rolls and 7 million people off of food stamps. And under the so-called Trump economy, we are actually achieving the progress, hope, and change that liberals have been falsely promising for decades but utterly failed to deliver or produce. And it’s really driving them crazy. That’s why we’ll probably end up with Crazy Bernie. Crazy Bernie. He’s crazy. We got some beauties. We got Sleepy Joe. We got Crazy Bernie. We got Mini Mike, but I think he’s out of it. I would like to spend $700 million and end up with nothing. Mini Mike. I know him well. I knew that was going to happen. That was probably the worst debate performance in the history of presidential debates. Do we agree? Has there ever been anything like — — but he’s going to keep spending the money. I think, this weekend, he’s going to — I hear his ads stop on Tuesday. He’s going for Tuesday. He’s going to spend a lot of money. It just shows you that you can’t buy an election. I mean, it just — there’s a point in which people say, “You got to bring the goods a little bit, too. You got to bring the goods.” Boy, did Pocahontas destroy him. I’ll tell you. And look what I did to her. She choked. You know, she went out and got a test because I was killing her with the Pocahontas. Remember, I said, “I have more Indiana blood in me than she does and I have none”? Right? I said it. I said it. Would love to have some but I have none. And she was getting hit with that name, “Pocahontas.” That was one of the good ones. And they said, “We want you to apologize for that name.” And I did. I apologized. Nobody ever heard me apologize before. I apologized to the real Pocahontas. I apologized. But she went out and she said, “Oh, this guy is killing me.” Remember, she was dropping like a rock. But I learned something: Never do it too early. Two — a year and a half before the election, I said, “What am I doing? I should have saved it.” But that’s all right. Because she had those burning embers and then she started, but ultimately she failed. She’s gone soon. But she was really mean to Mini Mike. I’ll tell you, the way she treated him. He didn’t know what hit him. He’s going, “Oh, get me off of this stage.” “Get me off! Get me off of this stage!” It’s true. It’s true. Well, thank you very much. We hit a nerve there, right? Bad guy. Far-left radicals have become increasingly desperate and increasingly dangerous in their quest to transform America into a country you would not recognize, a country in which they control every aspect of American life. Just as socialist and communist movements have done all over the world, they’re cracking down on all dissent and demanding absolute conformity. They want total control. They want to massively raise your taxes, bury you in regulations, take over American healthcare, indoctrinate our children from kindergarten to college — and you see that happening. Kids are coming home saying, “What’s going on here, dad?” The kids get it. But eventually, they can be taught, unfortunately. Impose a fanatical code of political correctness, bombard our citizens with fake-news propaganda, and implement policies that would turn America, very quickly, into a large-scale Venezuela. They want to take away your money, take away your choice, take away your speech, take away your guns, take away your religion, take away your history, take away your future, and take away, ultimately, your freedom. But we will never let them do that. For many years, the radical left’s sustained assault on American democracy, culture, institutions, and values went unanswered, but now we are fighting back, and we are winning like never before. We’re here. We are winning. You know? There was a time I used to come to CPAC; it didn’t have this kind of energy. Number one, you didn’t have the President. You know, I was only going to do this for Matt once. I said, “Look, I’m President. I can’t go to CPAC.” Right, Matt? I said, “I can’t do it.” So I did it. We had a great time. Next day he calls, “Can you do it again next year?” I said, “Yeah, I guess. This is like my fourth time or something, right? Or more. Or more. And I’ll be here next year. Okay? Huh? Why not? Thank you. From the moment I took the Oath of Office, the left has pursued a relentless crusade to overturn the results of the 2016 election and sabotage our next election. You know that. It was all a big hoax. You know that. Disgraceful. We caught the dirty cop on top. Had I not fired Comey, it would have been a whole different story. Would have been a whole different story. That was a great firing. I’ll tell you, a lot of people said, “Oh you shouldn’t have done that.” No, no, no, just the opposite. We didn’t fire him. Remember the insurance policy? Right? Right? Remember that? My friend over there — you are the greatest. Thank you very much stand up please. Look at him. Look at — does everybody know Jeffrey? Jeffrey Lord. What a great guy. He used to defend me on CNN, and then he defended me just a little bit too much. And they said, “Jeffrey, get the hell out.” And thank goodness you’re on Fox now. Right? He used to defend me. He used to say, “He’s better than Ronald Reagan.” And that was enough for Jeffrey. That was the end. They were — “Get out of here, Jeffrey.” “We don’t want you anymore.” He was too good. Thank you. Thank you for being here too, Jeffrey. They’re coming after me, and we fight them back. And now we’re going after them because we have no choice. We have to straighten out our country. But despite the best efforts of the left-wing fanatics, their scams, schemes, slanders — they’ve all been discredited. Totally discredited. How’s Comey doing? How is — by the way, how is Bob Mueller doing? That was a great performance in Congress. “Raise your right hand.” “What?” “Did you want a job in the White House running the FBI?” “Uh, no.” Oh, he did. He did. He did. What happened to him? That was a lie. That was a lie. We have it down. He said, “No, no.” It was a lie. He wanted a job. He wanted to be Director of the FBI. And then they appointed him the following day into special counsel. I call it “special prosecutor” because special prosecutor is a much more accurate name. What they did to us — what they tried to do — and yet, can you imagine with all of that — going through all of that with a cloud over your head like nobody has ever had, for us to have seriously done more than any other administration? I mean, it’s sort of a miracle when you think. Sort of a miracle or it’s a toughness, or it’s something. Maybe it’s right there, right? Thank you. Thank you, God. How did we do that? How did we do it? Best economy, greatest military, greatest tax cuts in history, greatest regulation cuts in history. All those judges — those as beautiful judges. Two Supreme Court judges. Great ones. But their sinister plots have been exposed and their credibility has been totally destroyed. They’re still just dealing with the embers, you know? A little bit like Pocahontas. She had those embers. And she started coming up, and that was the end. But they have embers too. They have embers. They have a lot of bad people around. But one by one. With the help of everyone here today, the American Dream is back bigger, better, and stronger than ever before. It’s true. It’s true. To lift up forgotten and impoverished communities, we created nearly 9,000 Opportunities Zones all across our country — Tim Scott — Senator Tim Scott was so great — — creating jobs, opportunity, and investment. It’s now pouring into the places that needed it the most. We have poor areas that haven’t had 10 cents invested in them in years and years and years. And now millions of dollars are going in there. We’re transforming neighborhoods. It’s incredible. It’s incredible. It’s one of the — it’s not talked about much by the media. It’s one of the greatest things ever done in terms of economic development: Opportunities Zones. Millions and millions of dollars are being poured and not being poured in by the federal government. Not being poured in by the federal government. It’s an incredible thing. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history, larger than any before. And it’s incredible. You know, all my life — I’ve only been doing this for five years, okay? — but all my life, I’ve watched politics. And it was always the guy that cut taxes — you want to cut taxes. The Democrats have a strange platform: They don’t want a wall; they want people to pour in. They want to raise your taxes, right? They say, “We want to raise taxes.” I’m trying to say, “Is this like a good thing to campaign on?” They want to raise taxes. Right? Think of it: They want to have sanctuary cities where you protect bad people, in many cases. The sanctuary cities. And, by the way, we just want the big case. Did you see that? Whoa. Two days ago. If they have a sanctuary city and they don’t do what we need for law enforcement, we don’t have to pay them any of that money. That’s billions and billions and billions. Wow. Where did that come from? Where did that come from? And 40 million American families are enjoying an average of $2,200 more in their pocket thanks to a beautiful thing that Republicans really don’t know about too much. You know, the Democrats like to take credit. It’s called “child tax credit.” We took that. That was Ivanka Trump — right, Mercedes? Ivanka Trump. She wanted that so badly. We’ve cut a record number of job-killing regulations because regulation is stealth taxation, especially on the poor. We have cut more regulations in this administration in three years than any administration has cut in four years, in eight years, or in one case, longer than that. You know, who that was: good, old FDR. We’ve ended the war on American energy. American energy was under siege. And I’ll tell you what: We don’t want to talk negatively, but if for any reason any of these characters get in there, you can forget — I mean, I don’t know how you’re going to win Texas, by the way. I don’t know how you’re going to win Pennsylvania, by the way. I don’t. They want to — they don’t want petroleum products. Other than that, they’re wonderful, right? How about this great character, Beto, right? Beto. Everyone thought — remember he said, “I was born to run. I was born.” He was born. Guy was a disaster. He said, “I was born.” Anybody that says he was “born to run” — he was born to do what I’m doing. Anybody that — I don’t even say it and I won one. It’s true. No, it’s so presumptuous. “I was born to run for President.” Well, then he came out against guns, religion, and oil, and he comes from Texas. And I said, “Abraham Lincoln couldn’t win in Texas without those.” Whatever happened to Beto? Oh, Beto. Come on back, Beto. He was born to run for President. He got down to less than 1 percent. So many of those people are less than 1 percent. How can you be less than 1 percent? You got to be really bad. The U.S. is now the number-one producer of oil and natural gas in the entire world, by far. Never again will our country be at the mercy of hostile foreign suppliers. America has declared energy independence. I declared it. We’re energy independent. Big thing. It’s a big deal. It’s a big deal. You ever notice in the straits — we always took care; we never got 10 cents for it — we’d keep those straits open. Nobody would dare mess around with all those countries that were making trillions and trillions and billions and billions. We kept those straits open. It was great, Jeffrey. It was beautiful what we did for these other countries. They never paid us 10 cents. We kept them open. We’d go and shoot at other ships and we’d fight this one and fight Iran. And I said, “Do we ever get paid for anything?” Right? But now they’re saying — you know, when they were blowing up ships last year, they were saying, “We’d love to get an American ship but they don’t send too many of them.” We don’t send too many of them over there. You know why? We have our own energy now. It’s pretty good. It’s gone way down. But you know who does get a lot of it — 60 percent? China. And I’d say, “So let me ask you, why are we keeping the straits open for China?” And others. But China gets a tremendous amount — percentagewise, tremendous — and we keep it open for them. I don’t know. You had a lot of really nice people running our country over the years. Perhaps I’m not nice, but I’m doing a great job for you. True. Well, it’s true. Yet every Democratic candidate wants to shut down American energy production — how do you do that? — including oil, natural gas, clean coal, and nuclear. They like wind. Wind. I won’t repeat it, but last year, the best line of the whole thing was wind, right? “Darling, I’d like to watch television.” “I’m sorry, Alice, the wind is not blowing. You can’t watch the debate.” That was the best line. I’m not going to go through it now because it’d be — I don’t like to be repetitive — — like Sleepy Joe, where says the same thing four different times. Oh, he’s got a bad habit. “Ladies and gentlemen of Ohio, it’s great to be with you.” “Joe. Joe, you’re an Iowa.” That was seven times he’s done that. I haven’t done it once. And if I did, you know what I’d do? I’d walk off the stage because there’s nothing you can do to come back from that. You can be — you can be Winston Churchill; he was a great, great speaker. Winston Churchill was pretty good, right? You could be Winston Churchill for the rest of the speech. And the press doesn’t kill him. You know, he said the other night — this was really a beauty — Sleepy Joe; he said, “Guns have killed 150 million people in our country.” And I’m watching. I said to your great First Lady — she’s doing a great job — I said, “First Lady…” Doing a great job. She’s doing a great job. Very popular. She’s very popular. Great style. Great style. Loves our country. Her father is here somewhere. Where is Viktor? Where is Viktor? Where is Viktor? Her father is here today. Where is Viktor? Her father is here someplace. He’s someplace in this massive room. There he is. Hello, Viktor. Her father is a great guy. But I said to our great First Lady, “First Lady…” I like calling her “First Lady.” I love calling her — the First Lady — — she said, “It’s okay. You can call me Melania.” Good. Now, see, when I have fun like that, you know what’s going to happen tomorrow? It’ll be a headline. “He calls her First Lady.” Because they’re dishonest people. We can have fun. Remember this thing, “Russia, if you’re listening”? Remember, it was a big thing — in front of 25,000 people. “Russia if you’re…” It was all said in a joke. They cut it off right at the end so that you don’t then see the laughter, the joke. And they said, “He asked. He asked for help.” Right? “Russia, if you’re listening…” A very famous — they cut that thing so quick at the end because they didn’t want to hear the laughter in the place and me laughing. It was just “boom.” These are really dishonest people. But — but I said to her — it’s true — I said to her, “Let me ask you this: Did he just say that we killed 150 million people? That’s half of our population. This is a terrible event.” “We have to find out what’s going on. This is bad.” This wasn’t reported by the fake news. It’s true. I said, “I’ve got to check that, First Lady, because you know what? If 150 million people were killed last year by guns — and they didn’t report the story. See, they didn’t — they didn’t report it. But you know what? Interestingly though — so I said “Well, his debate is dead. It’s dead. Nothing he can say.” At the end, they said, “His debate was great. He did a great job.” If I would have said that, it would have been over. You know, it only takes one little phrase for me — like a little couple of words. If you mispronounce a word — you know with all I speak, they say, “If he mispronounced the word ‘the’ — ‘the.’” He said “tha.” If you mispronounce “the.” There’s something going on. Something — Here’s a guy who said they killed 150 million people with guns and nobody even talks about it. But it is true; he’s — a lot of times, he blows it with the — you know, you could — I don’t do it. Fortunately, I don’t need it yet. Hopefully, maybe someday I will. But you know what you can do? You write down the name of the state that you’re speaking. And you put it up there, and whenever you’re going to say the word, you look down. “I’m in Florida today, folks. I’m in Maryland. I’m in Virginia. I’m in Iowa.” So they corrected him the one time he said “Iowa.” And then they said, “No, no, Idaho.” And he said, “I think — didn’t I say that?” No, he didn’t say that. He thought they were the same. No, he’s going to have, I think, a pretty big win today, I think, based on the polls. I don’t know how, the hell does he have a big win? Can you imagine? And I don’t know, maybe we should do it. You know, I did a poll last night, right? Should I do that here? Am I allowed? Do you promise you’re not going to charge me? You know, these pollsters — you know, they’re the others ones. Like the Fox pollster is the worst of all. But I don’t know, Fox is good but the pollster is so bad. Fox is good. You know, they’re okay. But — they’re okay. They put certain people on — you know, they have a good show and then they put these people, the Never Trumpers, on at the end. There’s nothing you can do to recover from that. But, you know, the pollsters are very phony, a lot of them. Some of it is worse than the actual journalists and reporters and stories. But last night, I did it in South Carolina. It was incredible. And we had, what would you say? Like Madison Square Garden almost. Right? It was — that thing was packed thousands and thousands of people. And we took a poll: Who would be my best person to run against? In other words, who would I like? Who would I do best against? Okay, to put it in very plain language, who the hell would I beat the easiest? Right? And I took a poll. And I’ll tell you the results but I’ll – let’s do it here, right? I mean, this group is — — okay. So, Pocahontas, we don’t have to waste our time with, right? Klobuchar, we don’t have to waste it. Right? Let’s leave — let’s not waste a lot of time. Okay? Butt-ig-ieg — — I don’t see it. To me, every time I look at that face, I see Alfred E. Neuman. It’s true. No, it’s true. It’s Alfred E. Alfred E. Neuman, Mad Magazine. See, the problem is most of you are too young. All these beautiful young women up here, they don’t know what the hell I’m talking about. But the old ones — the ones with the white hair — — they know exactly — they’re laughing like hell. But it’s true. Somebody said use Howdy Doody because everyone knows — I said “No, that’s not — that’s no good. It’s got to be perfecto.” And Alfred E. Neuman is perfecto, but you’re going to have to go back and get Mad Magazine, which I guess is out of business for a long time. Like most other magazines, right? But it was one of those things where I didn’t add his name. Then we went to Mini Mike. I said, “I don’t see it.” Is — should we add his name? I don’t see it. He’s going to have to spend a hell of lot of money really fast, because he’s getting killed in California. He’s losing in Texas. He’s losing all over the place. How the hell do you spend that much money and lose? You know, they had an article in, of all places, the New York Times. And it had the amount of personal money — not money you raised, personal money that somebody put up — and how they did. And they had — they started off with Mike Bloomberg, and I think he’s like at $500 million. It was 500 — more than five hundred. This is personal money. He writes checks like a drunken sailor, if I can use that expression. How much? Do you think those consultants — I know some of his people; they’re bad people. They are ripping him off. He’s got a couple of people right at the top; they are ripping him off. They are laughing all the way to the bank. “Keep running, Mike. Mike, keep running. You’re going to do it, Mike. Give us another three, four hundred million. I guarantee you the presidency, Mike.” Now he’s looking, “I promise you 500 million and I’m down at 10 percent. What the hell are you doing to me? Why did you make me do this?” he says. No, but I know some of his people. They are ripping him off like you never believe. So I said, “Should we put Mini Mike in there? I don’t see it, right?” No? Okay, I don’t see Mini Mike. People got wise to him really fast. Didn’t take too long. You know, you still have to — you can’t buy. It showed something nice. I mean, assuming that happens, I don’t think — you can’t buy an election. You really can’t buy, and that’s a good thing not a bad thing. That’s a good thing. And there are a lot of campaign finance violations there. There’s no way you can do what he’s doing. You know, you go into a town, you give somebody a contribution, two days later the guy comes, “I’d like to support Mini Mike Bloomberg.” There’s something strange with that whole deal. So we have two names. We have — one is Crazy Bernie. He’s crazy. And we have — he’s like a crazy professor — and we have the other one is Sleepy Joe Biden, right? So let’s take a poll, just — we’ll go Biden first. Scream like hell if you think I should run against him. Right? Is that okay? In other words, because we’re going to beat him. Who will we beat? So scream like hell. So, Sleepy Joe Biden. All right. This is, would you like me to run against him. Crazy Bernie Sanders. You can’t charge me. You cannot charge me for that. Matt is going to send me a bill for that. No, think of it. These pollsters — you ever see this crap? We interviewed 193 people — — with a plus or minus 3. You have thousands of people in here. I got it for free. But Mercedes will send me a bill — I guarantee you that — for a free poll. So, look, that happened last night too. I did the same thing. They think that Crazy Bernie — how could you be easier to beat than Joe? You know, that guy can put two sentences together. It’s insulting. How can you be easier? But, you know, he is more down the middle. You know, everyone knows he’s not a communist, right? And with Bernie there’s a real question about that, but he’s definitely a radical-left socialist Democrat. And people know that. With Joe, he’s sort of down the middle. You know, the difference is Joe is not going to be running the government, he’s just going to be sitting in a home someplace — — and people are going to be running it for him, and they will be radical-left socialists. So that’s what you have to remember. He’s — there’s no way he’s going to be running the government. But we’re reversing decades of calamitous trade policies, breaking up the unholy alliance of lobbyists, globalists, and special interests that bled our country, bled our factories, and bled our people dry. We understand that conservative policies must conserve our jobs, conserve our manufacturing, and conserve our American way of life. What we’ve done for manufacturing — look at all the manufacturing jobs; it’s all coming back. Obama said, “Never happened. Never happened. And it would never happen.” And he said, “You can keep your doctor.” Why didn’t they impeach him for saying that? Remember 28 times, “You can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.” It was a lie. Impeach him. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA and China’s entrance into the WTO. The worst two deals ever made in — now, I say — see, with all the women — humankind. I used to say “mankind.” Sounded sort of good. Now I say “humankind.” I don’t use it that much. Right? The women know what I’m talking about. The women get it better than the men. The women get it better. They named me TIME Magazine Person of the Year, right? Now, this year I lost to Greta. Greta. I lost to Greta. I said, “Who?” I’m not going to get involved in that, because last time I got in a little trouble. But I lost to Greta. But it doesn’t matter. I’ve won it, you know, enough. I mean, in all fairness, when the world evolves around this person — I don’t say good, bad, or — but you turn on that stupid CNN, you turn on MSDNC — — you turn on Fox, every story is Trump or Trump related, right? There’s no — if a plane goes down with 700 people on it, they don’t even cover it anymore. That used to be a big event. They don’t cover it anymore. It’s really unfair. But it’s been — by the way, have we all had a great time, though? This journey. This journey, right? This journey has been amazing. You know, I tell the story — a month before I ran, I said to my wife, “Well, I’m thinking about it.” Said to a couple, “Eh, I’m thinking about it.” Didn’t think too much about it. I thought about it like a day before I ran. But I remember seeing the New York Times. It came to my office, I held it up, it was like a thing you hand out at a grocery store. You know, it would have blown away with a little wind — about two miles an hour, it would have blown away. That was the New York Times. Now it’s a vibrant paper. But when I’m no longer here in 5 years or 9 years or 13 years or 17 years, 21, 25. No, they actually think I’m not leaving, you know. This crazy Bill Maher. Bill Maher, you ever hear of this guy? He says, “You know he’s not leaving.” He has a guest — some guest that didn’t have a clue. And the guest — he said, “You know Trump is going to win? You know that, don’t you? He’s going to win. You know he’s going to win, don’t you?” That guy is devastated. Bill Maher. He’s a nut job. “You know he’s going to win.” And the guest says, “No, no, we’re going to fight very hard. We think we have a good chance.” “No, no, he’s going to win. And then, you know what? He’s never leaving, don’t you? He’s never leaving.” “No, no, he’s never leaving. No, no, he’s got it work- — he will never leave. There is no way.” And I used to think he was kidding. He’s not. He is a total nut job, this guy. But under my administration, the great betrayal of America is over. It is no longer for sale. Last month, we ended the NAFTA catastrophe, and I signed the brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. A great job. The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, and workers all across our country. And, by the way, speaking of farmers, something they don’t know but they’re learning fast: No more estate tax on your small farm, small businesses, small other things. No more estate tax. People don’t talk about it. It’s a big thing — big provision. Big provision. If you love your children, it’s great. If you don’t love your children, it’s irrelevant. Don’t leave the money to them. But, you know, in years gone by, great farmers — they have a good land, good everything — but they don’t make that much cash. It’s a tough business, right? And the banks would come in, loan money to the children, and the banks would end up owning the property and all hell was going on. It was terrible. No more estate tax or, as we call it, “death tax.” No more on small farms and small businesses. Right? Nobody talks about it. Nobody talks about that, but it’s a big thing — if you love your children. If you don’t — does anybody here not love your children? Raise your hand, please. Look at that, not one hand. Well, that’s conservative people. They all love their children, right? Oh, there’s one hand in the back. I’m not calling him. I also took the strongest-ever action to confront China’s illicit trade practices. You see what happened there. And our strategy worked. And we have a great relationship with China now. We have a very good relationship. They didn’t even respect us. They were taking out $500 billion a year. We had a trade imbalance. We had a deficit of more than $500 billion, with a “B,” dollars a year. Can you believe that? Who the hell can sustain — who wants to even talk about that? So we started charging tariffs. They hit our farmers. I gave the farmers everything that they took out, and the money came from China because it came out of the tariffs. And we had a lot of money left over. A long, complicated story, but not really complicated. No other President ever thought of it. And now the farmers love me, and we ended up making a great deal. But they loved me before. You know, the farmers, when they’d go to — CNN would go up, “Is it terrible what President Trump is doing to you with trade war?” He says, “No. It’s hurting me badly, but the trade war is necessary. And it should have been done years ago.” Every one — I’ve never heard anybody say different. I’ve never heard anybody say different. The farmers are unbelievable. But I went to Sonny Perdue, our Secretary of Agriculture. I said, “So let me ask you– Chinese is tough; they’re smart. They hit them. How much did they take care out last year?” “Twelve billion dollars.” “How much did they take out this year?” “Sixteen billion dollars.” That was last year. I said, “$16 billion, $12 billion, good. We’re going to give them back the $12 billion.” Then we gave back the 16. Everything they took out. I said, “What was the best year they ever had with China?” It was $16 billion. I said, “Good. I’ll give them — I’ll reimburse them the $16 billion out of the tariffs that China is paying.” And, by the way, you know, China respects this, just so you understand. You know, other Presidents knew that they were getting ripped off. They didn’t know what to do about it. They said, “They’ll attack our farmers. Our whole farmer — all the farmers will go bust.” They didn’t know. Charge them tariffs, pay them back, and then keep a hell of a lot more money than you’re even giving to the farmers. And we kept tens of billions of dollars. And we made our first deal, and Schumer went, “It’s terrible, the deal. He got — he took the tariffs out.” No, nobody wanted tariffs until I taught them what tariffs are. But “It’s terrible. He went and took the tariffs out.” Actually, I didn’t. They’re paying 25 percent on $250 billion. I don’t even know how we pulled off that one. But they’re paying — But China is great, and now they want to negotiate phase two, because they want to stop paying the 25 percent on $250 billion. Otherwise, we have no leverage, right? We have no leverage. But the farmers are the greatest. And even before they knew I was going to be able to reimburse them all that money that was being taken out of their pockets, they were — they said to me — I had 25 farmers in the White House, right in the Cabinet Room. I use the Cabinet Room. Everybody else used it only for the Cabinet. I use it for everything but the Cabinet. No, I use it for farmers. We have beautiful — it’s this incredible room. Right? This incredible room. And I said to the farmers — I said, “You know, I want to give you back money. I want to give you a subsidy.” “Oh, we don’t want the word…” — they didn’t want — everybody else, they didn’t care what I used. I could use “subsidy.” I could use “welfare.” I could use any word I wanted. The farmers hated the word “subsidies.” “Sir we don’t want anything. We just want a level playing field. It’s been this way for 20 years. And it’s been it’s been absolutely hurting us.” They didn’t want anything. And I said, “You know, are you serious?” They said, “Yeah, we just want a level playing field. Nobody can beat us.” And it’s true, nobody can beat. They want a level playing field. And I said to myself, “Can you imagine, everybody that comes in — countries, other businesses, everybody — they want money. The farmers don’t. They just wanted a level playing field.” And that was at the bottom, when they really were looking — it was looking pretty bad. But now, China is going to be buying $50 billion worth of product. The most they ever — remember — got was 16, so they’re buying 50. We agreed to 20. And in the final day, they were getting the agreements ready. I said, “How much are the farmers getting?” Meaning, how much is China going to purchase from our farmers? “Twenty billion.” I said, “Do me a favor, make it 50.” They said, “50?” I said, “The farmers can’t do that much, can they?” They said, “No.” China said, “Absolutely not.” I said, “Look, what does it mean? You got 1.5 billion people. What the hell difference between 20 billion and 50? It doesn’t mean anything.” They said, “You’re right. We’ll give you 50.” It’s crazy. It’s crazy. My only problem is I don’t think the farmers can produce that much. It’s going to be very good to be a farmer when that whole thing kicks in. We understand that our First Lady and highest — and you have to remember this: When our First Lady came out, she said to me today, “Say hello to everybody.” And she said that, “Your first duty and your highest loyalty” — and this was coming right from her — “is to the American citizens. And you really have to let the people know.” This is — Melania told me this. Can you believe this? She’s like giving me a history lesson. Our First Lady is giving me a history — –- Our highest loyalty to the American people. I said, “Okay.” That was pretty good. Thank you. Thank you very much. I’ll tell her. I’ll tell her that was the single-best line in the whole speech. Nowhere has the American Left more thoroughly violated this sacrosanct principle than on immigration. Illegal immigration costs American taxpayers hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars a year, funds that could be used to improve our schools, roads, hospitals, and other vital services. Instead, Democrats want to take even more of your money to give illegal aliens free healthcare, free federal welfare, free education. They get treated better than they want to treat our military and our vets. And I stopped it. But it’s crazy. The Democrat Party’s immigration policies empower bloodthirsty cartels that maim, murder, and torture; that smuggle and traffic innocent human beings; that flood our communities with poisonous drugs. The Left’s immigration policies are not compassionate; they are heartless, merciless, and cruel. Countless Americans are killed every year by criminal aliens. These are illegal aliens that come in, and they are, in many cases, very bad people. In Houston, Texas, an illegal alien was charged with the murder for killing a 75-year-old grandmother in her home, stabbing her with a vicious machete knife 13 times in the chest. In Georgia, an illegal alien was charged with murder for killing, beheading, and dismembering his neighbor. Yet despite these travesties, the far-Left supports deadly sanctuary cities where people like that get protection. They release criminal alien predators into innocent communities rather than handing them over to our great heroes of ICE. ICE. They take such abuse. ICE — the toughest gangs in the world, MS-13. They slice people up. ICE takes them out by the thousands. Nobody else wants that job. The men over here don’t want that job, I can tell you right now. They’re tough and they love our country, but they got to be tough. Last year, California sanctuary law forced a single county to release over 1,000 convicted criminal aliens, and nearly 240 have already been arrested, and they’re looking for others. And those are just the crimes that we know about. Montgomery County, Maryland, announced a sanctuary policy last July. Since then, at least 10 illegal immigrants have been arrested for sex crimes, including the rape of an 11-year-old girl. In Seattle, officials released a known MS-3 [sic] — think of this — this was a known MS-13 gang member who later beat a 16-year-old boy with a baseball bat and hacked him to death with a machete. The list goes on and on and on. And these people are protected by their sanctuary cities fools. In my State of the Union Address, I called at Congress to pass legislation allowing the victims of these deadly policies to sue these sanctuary cities for the pain, anguish, and suffering they inflict on our people. Everyone here today, and patriotic citizens all across our land, agree with a fundamental truth: Our country must be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. The Left’s crazy mantra is: no borders, no nations, and no more deportations. They don’t want to deport. Crazy Bernie said he’ll never do a deportation. Right? Remember what he said? I better save this stuff. Maybe he won’t get the nomination. I don’t want to — I won’t say that he said — he thinks the Boston bombers, right? — the Boston guys, right? — he said they have the right to vote. He said prisoners in prison have the right to vote. They said, “Does that include the Boston maniac that’s scheduled to die?” Death penalty, which is very good. “But does that include that?” He said, “Yes, he would get the right to vote.” You believe that, that this guy would get the right to vote? So I said I won’t use that until later on. And I used it today at CPAC, and now he’ll find a way of getting out of it, and I won’t be able to use it against him in the campaign. That’s no god. See what I do here, Matt? That’s too bad. Too early. I got to wait until about two months before the vote, right? Right? She’s going, “Yes, please wait.” Except then you wouldn’t have enjoyed that. But it’s true. It’s true. Yeah, it’s okay for him to vote. It’s fine. He can — he killed many people, badly maimed and wounded many people, and he’s got the right to vote. Can you believe that this is where we’ve come? We believe in strong borders, sovereign nations, and the prompt deportation of anyone who illegally breaks into our country. And thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal crossings by a staggering 75 percent. We have ended catch and release, the worst of all the loopholes. We have seized a record amount of drugs and deported a record number of gang members. We are building the powerful border wall. We’re already up to 128 miles of border wall. And you think that was easy? It’s being built. And it’s being built to the highest standard you can build it. You know, just to show you again about the news: So we’re building it, and part of it is desert, it’s rough territory and very tough territory, in many ways. But the winds are blowing, and they’re putting it up, and it’s 30 feet high — steel and concrete both. And you have to be able to see through it. Very expensive. It’s the ultimate wall in terms of — we went to Border Patrol. They did a study; they hired people, climbers. What’s the hardest to climb? The piece on top. That’s called an “anti-climb provision.” Supposedly, it makes it harder. Who knows? But I said, “Do it.” Another couple of bucks. But we put up a wall, and it was blowing 50, 60 miles an hour in this territory. The concrete was just poured; it was soaking wet. The wall came down, and we end up with a big story. “Trump’s wall gets blown over by the wind.” That’s what it is. But I explained — because when you have Twitter, where you have so many millions of people, all you have to do is say: “Scam.” Scam. We can get the word out. Now we — we lifted it right back up and put it back, and we held that sucker in place until the concrete dried. And they don’t like to report that. It’s really — it’s really — but that’s — you know, that’s what we have to go through. It’s a very sad situation. Another grave threat facing our country — by the way, on the wall, so we’re up to over almost 130 miles of wall. Think of that. But, I mean, really amazing. Think of it. But then they say, “All right, so he’s building a wall.” You have to understand: I had an entire party against me, and a party that controls the House now. And we’re going to take back the House. We have to take it back. We have to take it back from these lunatics — from these lunatics. We have to take back the House. All right? We have to take it. No, but think of that. But so now they like to say, “All right, so he’s building the wall, but Mexico is not paying for it.” Yes, they are, actually. You know what I mean, right? They are paying for it. They’re paying for it. Oh, they’re going to die when I put in this — what we’re going to do. But, no, they’re paying for it. And they’re okay with it because they understand that’s fair. But, no, Mexico is paying for it and it’s every bit — it’s better than the wall that was projected. We’re doing it at a higher level. We have so many gadgets on that wall, you wouldn’t even believe it. Sensors. We have things. Remember, they wanted drones. They said, “He doesn’t need a wall.” These people all, six years ago, they wanted a wall. And I told people I made one big mistake. I should have said — I said, “We will build a wall.” People went crazy. Look at you. We’ve been doing this for years. I could get elected twice over the wall. Can you believe this? No, no, but look at it. People go crazy. But we — just take a look. We have a wall. People want a wall. And what are the two things, no matter how technological we get with the computers and the airplanes and everything is going — two things will never change: a wall and a wheel. Right? A wheel and a wall. And if you come back 1,000 years from now, it’ll still be a wall and a wheel. Remember they used to say, “He doesn’t need a wall. We’ll give him a drone.” “Oh, that’s great. We can have a drone watching everybody pour across.” But the mistake I made: I should have said, “We will not build the wall.” Then they would have made me build a wall. Right? I would have had all the money I could have got. Oh, could have been so much easier. Instead, I had to go through years. But we won all of those cases. They got sued by everybody. We got sued by politicians that didn’t know they were politicians. We had a lot of suits that we won. We won all those suits. Another grave threat facing our country is the effort from Washington Democrats to completely demolish our healthcare system, jeopardizing the health of millions of people. While congressional Democrats embrace Crazy Bernie’s socialist healthcare takeover, we are defending America’s right to keep the doctor and the plan of your choice. We are ending surprise medical billing — just happened. We are imposing price transparency bigger than healthcare. We are protecting our veterans. And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. Healthcare is a big, big part of what we’re doing. Democrats have declared their unlimited support for extreme late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother’s womb right up until the very moment of birth. And that is why I’ve asked Congress to prohibit late-term abortion of babies, because every child is a sacred gift from God. Thank you. In my State of the Union Address, I also asked Congress to pass legislation providing 1 million American children access to school choice, because no child should ever be trapped in a failing government school. And with the help of many of the people in this room today, we passed criminal justice reform to reduce recidivism and to help former inmates successfully rejoin society. We are helping prisoners like you wouldn’t believe — people that are in, like Alice Johnson. You saw Alice Johnson, right? She served 22 years, made a phone call. And she’s not trying to defend herself from the phone call. For 22 years — she had another 20 or so to go, and we got out. She’s a great woman. Through our Pledge to America’s Workers, employers are providing millions of marginalized workers with the skill they need to transition from government dependence to self-reliance. That’s what we need. And we need people. To defend the rule of law, we have confirmed a record number of judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. That’ll be nice. And we have appointed our two great new Supreme Court justices, as I said: Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. As the radical left moves aggressively to curtail freedom of speech, we are proudly defending free speech, including at our college campuses. Any college that refuses to respect your First Amendment rights now risk the loss of billions and billions of federal taxpayer dollars. I signed that a few months ago because these colleges, they take our money and then they don’t let people speak. So now they won’t take our money, and I guess they can do whatever they want. But they’re not going to get money. It’s billions of dollars we’re talking about. We’re also combatting anti-Semitism on college campuses. We’re stopping the flow of taxpayer money to colleges and universities that support anti-Semitic hate. And we’ve invested nearly $2.2 trillion to build up the unmatched rank of the United States military. $2.2 trillion. And for the first time in over 70 years — the Air Force being the last — we created a new branch of the American Armed Forces called the Space Force. Together, we have revitalized the values, traditions, and principles that have always defined American greatness. Citizens of every age, race, color and creed are rejecting the Left’s insanity and joining us in the fight to save this glorious nation. And that’s what we’re doing: We’re saving this nation. Every day, our movement grows bigger, bolder and broader, and America’s future gets brighter, brighter, and brighter. Our movement is united by a towering spirit of patriotism, a profound and abiding love for our fellow Americans, and a deep reverence for the rights and liberties given to each of us by the hand of Almighty God. We know that America is the greatest nation to ever exist. We know that America is the strongest force for good in the history of the world. And we know that America is the home of the toughest men and the strongest women ever to walk the face of the Earth. This is the home of our ancestors carved out of the wilderness; the home of our forefathers shed their blood; the home of our children. And this is the home that we want. This is the home that we want our children to inherit. We will love and cherish and protect this nation forever. For all of the soaring heights that we’ve reached, we know that there are still more records to be shattered, new summits to be scaled, more triumphs to be realized, and more amazing history just waiting to be written. The American adventure has only just begun. With your help and the good Lord’s grace, we will continue to push onward to our nation’s magnificent destiny. We will continue to make our republic the inspiration, the glory, and the envy of the world. As long as we are confident in our values, loyal to our citizens, and faithful to our God, there is no limit to what we can achieve. The United States of America will always march on to victory. America is thriving like never before. And, ladies and gentlemen, the best is yet to come. I want to thank Matt, I want to thank Mercedes. I want to thank the great patriots of CPAC. God bless you. God bless America. And we will see you next year. Thank you very much. Thank you very much everybody. Before we begin, I’d like to congratulate all those incredible people that have worked for so long on our endless war in Afghanistan — 19 years, going on 20 years. And there hasn’t been a moment like this. We’ve had very successful negotiations. We think they’ll be successful in the end. The other side is tired of war. Everybody is tired of war. That’s been a particularly long and gruesome one. And when I congratulate President Ghani and the people of Afghanistan. I want to remember all of the people — all of the great, great men and women that have lost their lives in the war, and to their parents and wives and husbands and families, brothers and sisters. These are great, great people. Many lives, over such a long period of time, have been lost. I want to thank our wounded warriors — people that are still bearing pain and all of the problems that they’ve had to go through. And they’re incredible people. Incredible spirit. I’d go to Walter Reed and see them so often. And the spirit they had — they wanted to go back. Despite their wounds, they always said, “I want to go back.” Wounded warriors — they’re incredible people. I guess, most of all, I want to thank all of the people in the United States for having spent so much, in terms of blood, in terms of treasure and treasury — the money that has been spent, the lives that have been lost. And we just signed an agreement that puts us in a position to get it done, bring us down to in the vicinity of 8,000 troops. The United Nations was informed of everything. And NATO has been great. Secretary Stoltenberg has been fantastic. I want to thank the United Nations for the help they gave. And I also want to thank and congratulate Secretary Stoltenberg of NATO. Twenty-nine countries involved and all approving, all very happy with what’s going on. I want to also thank and congratulate Secretary of State Pompeo and Secretary of Defense Mark Esper. And I’ll be meeting personally with Taliban leaders in the not-too-distant future. And we’ll be very much hoping that they will be doing what they say they’re going to be doing: They will be killing terrorists. They will be killing some very bad people. They will keep that fight going. We’ve had tremendous success in Afghanistan in the killing of terrorists, but it’s time, after all these years, to go and to bring our people back home. We want to bring our people back home. And, again, it’s been — it’s been a long journey in Afghanistan in particular. It’s been a very long journey. It’s been a hard journey for everybody. We’re, very largely, a law enforcement group. And that’s not what our soldiers are all about. They’re fighters. They’re the greatest fighters in the world. As you know, we’ve destroyed, in Syria and Iraq, 100 percent of the ISIS caliphate. One hundred percent. We have thousands of prisoners. We have killed ISIS fighters by the thousands — and, likewise, in Afghanistan. But now it’s time for somebody else to do that work, and that’ll be the Taliban and it could be surrounding countries. There are many countries that surround Afghanistan that can help. We’re 8,000 miles away. So we’ll be bringing it down to 8,000, to approximately 8,600 — in that vicinity — and then we’ll make our final decision some point in the fairly near future. But this was a very spirited agreement. There was a lot of — there was a lot of talk. There was a lot of everything. They’ve been trying to get this for many years. And just — it’s time. So I just want to thank everybody. I want to congratulate everybody. I really believe the Taliban wants to do something to show that we’re not all wasting time. If bad things happen, we’ll go back. I let the people know: We’ll go back and we’ll go back so fast, and we’ll go back with a force like nobody has ever seen. And I don’t think that will be necessary. I hope it’s not necessary. And so I just wanted to bring that up, before we begin, on a topic that has become very, very important to everybody. First of all, the amount of work that these professionals behind me and many other professionals in many rooms behind us who are watching right now — don’t have the room here to bring them all in — but they have been working around the clock, so hard, on the coronavirus. It’s a tough one, but a lot of progress has been made. I want to provide an update to our people, to our citizens — to the world, frankly — on our action to address the coronavirus and those that have been hurt badly by it. At this moment, we have 22 patients in the United States currently that have coronavirus. Unfortunately, one person passed away overnight. She was a wonderful woman — a medically high-risk patient in her late fifties. Four others are very ill. Thankfully, 15 are either recovered fully or they’re well on their way to recovery. And in all cases, they’ve been let go in their home. Additional cases in the United States are likely, but healthy individuals should be able to fully recover. And we think that will be a statement that we can make with great surety now that we’ve gotten familiar with this problem. They should be able to recover should they contract the virus. So, healthy people, if you’re healthy, you will probably go through a process and you’ll be fine. Since the early stages of the foreign outbreak, my administration has taken the most aggressive action in modern history to confront the spread of this disease. We moved very early. That was one of the decisions we made that really turned out to be a lifesaver, in a sense. A big lifesaver. On January 31st, I imposed travel restrictions on foreign nations who had — and anybody that had been to China or people coming out of China. And I want to say that China seems to be making tremendous progress. Their numbers are way down. And if you read, Tim Cook of Apple said that they are now in full operation again in China. Their numbers are way down. Experts now agree that the decision to move so quickly, despite a lot of opposition on that decision, was a wise one. It greatly slowed the spread of the virus to the United States, and it really gave us time to do some of the critical moves that we’ve done. And it allowed these great professionals to get together and figure it all out. And we think they’ve done that. We’ve taken the most aggressive actions to confront the coronavirus. They are the most aggressive taken by any country. And we’re the number-one travel destination anywhere in the world, yet we have far fewer cases of the disease than even countries with much less travel or a much smaller population. As an important part of our efforts, on Monday, I’ll be meeting with the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, actually. They’ll be coming to the White House, and we’re talking about a vaccine and developing, very quickly — and they’ve already started working on it — developing, very rapidly, a vaccine for the virus, to combat the virus. And we’re having very good initial feedback. But these companies will be coming to the White House on Monday. Tremendous amounts of supplies are already on hand. We have 43 million masks, which is far more than anyone would have assumed we could have had so quickly, and a lot more are coming. Today, the White House Coronavirus Task Force, led by Vice President Mike Pence, they met for two and a half hours. I spent a lot of that time with them also, and we came up with some ideas, recommendations, and, frankly, some pretty strict edicts that we’re going to be going by. And Mike is going to be discussing that. But we are really having a group of people that is so talented and they’re working around the clock. And for that reason, I really would wish that we could really — that we could report exactly what’s happened: how well we’re doing under quite adverse circumstances. But we’re doing really well. Very, very professionally handled. Our country is prepared for any circumstance. We hope it’s not going to be a major circumstance; it’ll be a smaller circumstance. But whatever the circumstance is, we’re prepared. And I’d like to just ask and caution that the media — we would respectfully ask the media and politicians and everybody else involved not do anything to incite panic because there’s no reason to panic at all. This is something that is being handled professionally. I also want to thank, by the way, governors and representatives of our various states — in some cases, some more than others — because they’ve really been working very hard in areas where we’ve seen indication of the virus. But I want to thank the governors and all of the representatives from all of our states. The rooms they’ve made available, the speed with which they’ve worked, has really been incredible. So, again, thank you to everybody. I’m going to ask Mike Pence now to discuss a little bit about travel. And we have some restrictions on some travel from other countries that are having a hard time. And I want to thank everybody. We’ll take some questions as soon as we’re finished. Thank you very much. No, no, no. “Hoax” referring to the action that they take to try and pin this on somebody, because we’ve done such a good job. The hoax is on them, not — I’m not talking about what’s happening here; I’m talking what they’re doing. That’s the hoax. That’s just a continuation of the hoax, whether it’s the impeachment hoax or the “Russia, Russia, Russia” hoax. This is what I’m talking about. Certainly not referring to this. How could anybody refer to this? This is very serious stuff. But the way they refer to it — because these people have done such an incredible job, and I don’t like it when they are criticizing these people. And that’s the hoax. That’s what I’m talking about. Well, that’s a very dishonest — — a very dishonest question, because he has — Because he has had that ability to do virtually whatever he’s wanted to do. And, in fact — In fact — He was never muzzled. I think I can speak — you can speak. Why don’t you speak to that? A very dishonest question, but that’s okay. It is dishonest. Steve, go ahead. Yes. We are looking also at southern border. In fact, some of the folks are here right now. Ken is here someplace. And, yes, we are thinking about southern border. We have — we have received a lot of power on the southern border over the last couple of years from the courts. But we are looking at that very strongly. Well, I hope they don’t change their routine. But maybe, Anthony, I’ll let you — I’ll let you answer that. Or Bob? Do you want to answer that? Please. Go ahead. Well, we care very much for the troops. We’re in constant touch with the troops. We’ve been speaking to the General, as you probably. Thirty-two thousand troops in South Korea. And that’s all working out fine. And we’re in touch — we were in touch with the authorities in South Korea, too. Yes. Okay, so, again, the “hoax” was used with respect to Democrats and what they were saying. It was a hoax, what they were saying. And that was very clear, if you’d read the words. And I think you know that too. As far as what responsibility: My great responsibility — I think the biggest decision we made was going very early. And that was a decision made against a lot of people that thought we shouldn’t do that. That’s why we’re at 22 instead of a much higher number. It would have been a much higher number. That was a big decision. It was a hard decision because it had never been done before anyway. I mean, not even early or late. It had never been made, a decision like that. So that was big. And my next thing is really getting the best people. We have the best people in the world. They’re standing behind me. These people are so talented. I’ve seen them in action now for a number of weeks, actually, but for — in particular, for the last four or five days. And I want to thank Mike Pence and everybody for the job they’re doing. We have a great team. We have great people. And this too will end. Go ahead. Please. Go. Well, I think so. I mean, we — we lead a life. I get around. I was in South — I did. I was in South Carolina last night. We had a tremendous rally. I’ve been around. I think we’re going to be in very good shape. You know, you’re talking about 22 people right now in this whole, very vast country. So I think we’ll be in very good shape. Yes. Please. Well, he’s a terrific man. He’s been fantastic at everything he’s done. He’s highly respected. He wanted to wait until after the IG report came in, as you saw originally. I don’t think he was officially or formally nominated. His name was thrown out. But he wanted to wait until after the IG report. The IG report has now come and we’ve learned a lot of very bad things from the IG report, as you know very well. And I think he’ll go through a process, and it’ll go fairly quickly. He’s a very respected man; somebody that I’ve gotten that like. Somebody who really has — he’s someone who’s really distinguished himself and, I think, over the last year and a half, two years, in particular. So we’re very happy with that. As far as the Taliban is concerned, everybody wanted this to happen. The Taliban wanted it to happen. President Ghani was very much involved in this, as you know. And he’s now dealing with the Taliban. But we’re talking about 19 years we’ve been there. Nineteen years. And other presidents have tried to do this. The Taliban has given a pledge, and a very strong pledge, and we’ll see how that all works out. We hope it’s going to work out very well. I think they have big incentives to do it, but they have to take care of the terrorists and kill the terrorists. We’ll be working in a different kind of a fashion toward that end. But the job we’ve done has been a fantastic one in terms of terrorists and terrorism, and it’s time for our people to start coming home. Some measures. We’ve been in very close contact with China, including myself with President Xi. He very much wanted this to happen. He wanted this to get out and finished and be done. He worked — he’s been working very, very hard, I can tell you that. And they’re making a lot of progress in China. You probably saw Starbucks are now opened again. You probably saw that — as I mentioned, Tim just came out and he said Apple is back to normal in terms of production in their facilities in China. They’ve made a lot of progress. Well, we have a great relationship, as you know, with Mexico. We have 27,000 soldiers — their soldiers — on our border doing a fantastic job. Our numbers are way down of people coming into our country illegally. We have ports of entry that we are keeping open. And we’re not talking about it; we’re thinking about all borders. We have to think about that border. But, right now, that is not a border as it pertains to what we’re talking about here. This is not a border that seems to be much of a problem right now. We hope we won’t have to do that. Yes, please go ahead. No, no. You weren’t — please. Well, I think our relationship with China is very good. We just did a big trade deal. We’re starting on another trade deal with China — a very big one. And we’ve been working very closely. They’ve been talking to our people, we’ve been talking to their people, having to do with the virus. No, our relationship with China is very good. Maybe it’s closer because of what’s happened here, because it was — you know, in a certain way, this can bring the world closer, if you want to know. It can really do that. Go ahead. Yeah. You know, first of all — Yeah. We’ll look at that. Look, nobody should be criticizing this deal after 19 years. He had his chance; he didn’t do it. He was very much in favor of going in. We should have never gone in in the first place, when they went into — — when they went into Iraq. Listen. Listen. When they went into Iraq, when they went into the Middle East in such a fashion, I was very much against it. Shouldn’t have gone — gone in. He thought we should have. That’s been proven wrong. I’m surprised that anybody would be against something where we try and end a 19-year war. We’re 8,000 miles away from our home. We’ve done a great job, in the sense that we’ve killed a lot of terrorists, we’ve put them out of commission. Who knows what they would have done if we didn’t do that. But it’s time for us to come home. Now, the Taliban, working with other nations perhaps — because you’re surrounded by other very strong nations. And whether it’s Pakistan or Iran or lots of other places, including Russia, they can all work on this. We’ve been doing it for nations that are surrounding Afghanistan. Now it’s time for us to start coming home. And I think it’s a very good situation. President Ghani is working on it very hard. We’ll see how that works out. But the United States has done great services for people all over the world that, frankly, I don’t think they’ve been given the — the, really — the kind of respect that they should be given for what we’ve done. What we have done for the world is incredible. And usually we don’t even get a “thank you.” In Afghanistan, we did something. And I will tell you, for the most part — I noticed he was negative, but he should have tried to do something better. He was here for a year; he could have done something better. I was all ears, and he wasn’t able to do that. The deal has a chance to be extremely good. But what it does do is we start bringing our people back home. Yeah. Go ahead. Good. It’s about time. No, I think the Fed has a very important role and — especially psychological. I mean, if you look at the — the Fed has a massive impact. Lots of it is psychological and lots of it is fact. This is something I think they should have done even beyond this and before this, because other countries — they are not as nearly as prime. We’re the greatest in the world. It’s our currency. Everything — we have everything. We should have the lowest interest rates. We don’t have the lowest interest rates. Our Fed rate is higher. You look at Germany. You look at Japan. You look at other countries. They have — many of them have negative rates. And we are not put in that position because of our Fed. And now we have this problem. You saw where Germany is lowering and also infusing a lot of money into their economy — a tremendous amount. I haven’t heard our Fed say they should do this. Our Fed should start being a leader, not a follower. Our Fed has been a follower. We need a Fed that’s going to be a leader. We should have at least the same rates and ideally lower rates than other countries. We shouldn’t be paying more, but we’re forced to pay more in interest. And we — we are the most prime. Think of it: biggest economy in the world, by far. China would have overtaken us in this year; they were expected to for five years. 2019, they were going to overtake us. They’re not even close, and they won’t be close as — as long as somebody smart is right here, they won’t be close. But I will say this: The relationship with them is good, but as far as the Fed is concerned, our Fed should be a leader. Our Fed has not been a leader at all. Frankly, we should have — we should have — we could refinance our debt at even lower rates. The rates are very low, but we should be refinancing debt at even lower rates. Our Fed is making us pay more than we should, and that’s ridiculous. Right. I think this process will go very quickly. I think Democrat, Republican, liberal, conservative — this process is going to go very quickly. And, you know, that was — excuse me? Yeah. We can do that. You want to do that? Okay. Would you like to say something? All right. Okay. By the way, the meeting with the pharmaceutical companies was actually set up before, over drug pricing, because we want prices to go way down. But it turns out to be a very convenient meeting as it pertains to the vaccine. Talk about both. Well, let me just respond quickly, and then I’m going to have Mike say something about that because I’ve heard very good explanations, actually. When it came to healthcare, Indiana has been a leader — an absolute leader. And it was really started with others, but by Mike Pence, and he’s done a phenomenal job on healthcare. One of the best, if not the best, in the country. And with that, I’ll let Mike respond specifically, if you want to. It was a great answer, and he’s doing a great job. Go ahead. He’s doing a great job. Great answer. Thank you. When was that? When? Okay. The market will all come back. The markets are very strong. The consumer is unbelievably strong. The companies are very strong. We have one problem. We have to get this problem brought into focus, and it is — right now, I think our professionals are doing a great job. I’m not thinking — I’m not thinking in terms — Well, it’s certainly — it’s certainly not a good situation when you lose travel. That’s a big part of market. But for a period of time, we’re going to have to do whatever is necessary. Safety, health, number one. We — the markets will take care of themselves. The companies — companies are very powerful. Our consumer has never been in a better position than they are right now. Larry Kudlow was telling me before that the numbers — I said, “Don’t even bring it up. What difference?” But that the numbers are very strong. He’s got numbers from Friday, very strong. You see the numbers. But our focus — our focus is on exactly this; it’s not on that. That will take care of itself. I think the big thing we’re looking for is the Fed to do its job. If the Fed does its job, that’s what we are really looking for. We’re — prior to this, we — as you know, we announced that we’re going to be — at the end of the year, we’re going to be — toward the end of the year, we’re going to be announcing a middle-income tax cut in order to get that through. I don’t think the Democrats are going to be approving any tax cuts because they like to raise taxes instead of lowering taxes. But we’ll be, in the not-too-distant future, announcing a very major middle-income tax cut. Okay? So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Thank you. Go ahead, please. Yeah. I think it’s always good to be prepared. I think it’s always good. But we are super prepared, when you hear 43 million masks, as an example. All right, we’ll do one more. Go ahead, the gentleman — go ahead. Right. They all want to discuss arms control, and that’s a wise thing. We’re spending now over $20 billion on nuclear and on the super-speed missiles and many other things. And they have come to me, and they all want to now discuss arms control, and that includes China and that includes Russia. And I think it’s very smart of them to want to do it, and I think it’s very smart of us to want to do it. And we will be discussing that in New York. Go ahead. One final question. Go ahead. No, no. Please. Like today. Okay? Today. They’ll start immediately. So, ladies and gentlemen, we’ll be doing this quite often. We’re going to keep you abreast of all of the facts. And again, I want to thank the professionals. They are great professionals. I’ve gotten to really know them and see them under very interesting and tough and trying conditions. We have the finest in the world. I will say this: Other countries call us and they ask, would it be possible for them to speak to Anthony and Bob and the people that you’re talking to on a daily basis now. So we’re going to be very transparent. We’ll be meeting you probably tomorrow or the next day. We’ll keep you abreast. Thank you very much. Hello, everybody. I’m going to South Carolina, a big rally. A lot of people — thousands of people outside and it’s going to be very exciting. We have a big day tomorrow, in terms of the Democrats watching. See what happens. And then, on Tuesday, you have a very big day, so it will be interesting to see. We’re at the same number. A lot of people are getting better. Very much better. The 15 number. Plus we took in, as you know — from Japan, we took in some great American people and citizens and they’re getting better very rapidly. They’re doing very well. All of them are doing well. The 15 people, likewise, we have them down to a much lower number. They’re in good shape. Most of them are in really good shape. One of the people is — I wouldn’t say “not doing well,” but it’s very — she’s very sick. But she’s hopefully getting better. But we’re at the same number. We’ve only — so, it — essentially, we’ve only had 15. And a lot of that is because we called it early. We — we were — we made a decision very early to close up our borders to certain areas of the world and we did that. And so we are hopefully getting lower from that number, but let’s see what happens into the future. Some countries are doing well; some countries are not doing well. You can see that for yourself. And a lot of things are happening. We’re very well organized. We have great talent, great doctors, great — great everyone. There’s tremendous spirit. A lot of spirit. And, as you know, with the flu, on average, we lose from 26,000 to 78,000 people a year — even more than that, in some cases, some years. We haven’t lost anybody yet. And hopefully, we can keep that intact. We — there have been no deaths in the United States at all. A lot of that is attributable to the fact that we closed the border very early. Otherwise, it could be a different story. So we’ll — we’ll just keep doing a good job. We’re ordering a lot of supplies. We’re ordering a lot of — a lot of elements that, frankly, we wouldn’t be ordering unless it was something like this. But we’re ordering a lot of different elements of medical. We are working on cures and we’re getting some very good results. As you know, they’re working as rapidly as they can on a vaccine for the future. And, with that, I think I can head out. Well, I think it’s just people don’t know. It’s the unknown. You know, they look at it and they say, “How long will this last?” I think they’re not very happy with the Democrat candidates, when they see them. I think that has an impact. And we think — we think we’re going to win. We think we’re going to win easily, but you never know. It’s an election. I don’t think that’s helping. But I think that, basically, it’s the unknown a little bit. But I feel very confident and our people are doing a fantastic job. And again, we haven’t seen an increase and people are getting better. Almost everybody that we see is getting better. And it could be everybody, too. No, I — well, I’m spending a lot of time on it, just in coordination. Mike Tence [sic] — Pence is doing a great job. Dr. Fauci — Dr. Fauci is great. They’re all doing, really, a fanta- — Alex Azar is right on top of it. We’re all watching it very closely. We don’t want any bad surprises. What is it? You’re going to have to speak up. This thing is — Well, we’re looking at that right now and we’re looking at a couple of countries — a few countries that have a little bit disproportionately high number. And we’re going to make that decision very soon. Well, I think that the media is — yes, I think that CNN is a very disreputable network. I think they’re doing everything they can to instill fear in people and I think it’s ridiculous. And I think they’re very disreputable. And some of the Democrats are doing it the way it should be, but some of them are trying to gain political favor by saying a lot of untruths. The fact is, I made one decision that was a very important decision and that was to close our country to a certain area of the world that was relatively heavily infected. And because of that, we’re talking about 15 — who seem to all be getting better. One is questionable. And, had that decision not been made, it could be a much different story. So, some people are giving us credit — Quiet. Some people are giving us credit for that, and some people aren’t. But the only ones that aren’t, they don’t mean it; it’s political. It’s politics. So, speaking of politics, I’m going to South Carolina. I think we’re going to do fantastically there and it will be very interesting to see what happens tomorrow. Thank you. Say it? Well, I think the stock market is a reflection of this, plus I also think the people are not happy when they look at what’s running on the other side. You know, it is an election and I think we’re going to do very well in the election, but it still is an election and I don’t think people are very inspired when they see the people running on the other side. But we’re going to win and that’ll solve that problem. And after we win, you’ll see a rise in the stock market like you haven’t seen before. Well, I hope the Fed gets involved. You know, I’m not a big fan of the Fed. You know that. I think they make a lot of mistakes. They’ve made a lot of mistakes. But I hope the Fed gets involved and I hope they get involved soon. If you look at Germany, they’re putting in a lot of money and they’re probably lowering rates still further. You look at other countries; they’re all stuffing the till. They’re all going in there. They’re putting a lot of money. And our Fed sits there, doesn’t do what they’re supposed to be doing. But that’s up to them. That’s up to them. They’re independent. But they’ve done this country a great disservice. Thank you very much. Well, I want to thank you very much. We’re here with some of the black leaders of our country and — people that are highly respected and people that have done a fantastic job and, for the most part, have been working on this whole situation with me right from the beginning. And we’ve done a lot. We’ve done Opportunity Zones. We’ve done criminal justice reform. We’ve done things that people didn’t even think possible. Criminal justice reform — we’ve let a lot of great people out of jail. And, you know, Alice Johnson is, really, just such a great example. A fine woman. And she doesn’t say she didn’t do it; she made a mistake. But she was in there for 22 years when we let her out, and she had practically another 20 left. And that’s not appropriate. Yeah, I know. So incredible. And you couldn’t produce — there’s nobody is Hollywood that could have produced that last scene of her. That was the real deal — of her when she saw her kids. So it’s really a fantastic thing. So what I think I do is I’d like to — for the media, I’d like to go around the room, and we can do just a quick introduction of each other. And I’ll start with me. My name is Donald John Trump. And I’m President of the United States. We have a lot of great things in store and a lot of interesting times. And you’ve been seeing the polls. The polls have been incredible. We’ve had some polls with — and I could say “black,” I could say “African American,” or I could say both. But I’ll tell you what: The polls are at a level that people have never — I don’t think they’ve seen, in terms of Republican. And I won’t be satisfied until I get 100 percent, because nobody has done more for black people than I have. Nobody has done more. And so, I appreciate it. We’ve been in this together and what we’ve accomplished for black people — for the country, but for black people — has been unprecedented, I believe. Terrence? Please. That’s great. He’s a great fighter. I didn’t see you down there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Jared. Right behind you, I see, through all of these cameras, we have one of our great stars. Will you please stand up? That’s right. Thank you. And we’re doing it. We’re doing it. your reference — your reference was so important for Angela, and you told me what a wonderful person she is. And she was there for a long time and was going to be there for a long time. Do you want to mention that? That’s great. No, I’m very happy you told us about it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Jack? Thank you. Thank you, David. That’s really nice. I actually saw you walking through the airport. You know, I — it was all over the place; you know, that is a very famous clip. That was great. But I appreciate it, David. Thank you very much. Here’s a guy doing a great job. You knew you could do it. I didn’t know — you knew you could do it. You had no doubt. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. I will say this: I do lose a fortune being President — — because we’re doing very important work. But it is — and, you know, something I don’t talk about but I give my salary — it’s $450,000. I give it. And surprisingly, it — now, it may be back in George Washington’s day, but they don’t think any other President has ever given the salary. It’s $450,000. So, no — it’s money. And I give it. I never had a story — I don’t think I’ve had a story that I give it. But I guarantee if I was ever late — because it comes in quarterly — if I was ever late, it would be a front-page story . And to be the best of our knowledge, we have not found another President that gave. But I appreciate what you just said. I appreciate it very much. Thank you. Great, huh? You know, my wife, the First Lady, said — this a long time ago now; it’s like four years ago — she said there are two people that she was watching on the Internet. They’re the most incredible two people she’s ever seen. I said, “Big deal. What is it?” You know, she said, “You have to see this.” And I saw — it’s, I guess, almost five years — and I watched them and they had such a spirit. And they were for me before I was even running. They were so early. And you have been such great friends, and I appreciate it. I appreciate it. And Candace, I will say that you’re another one. She saw you too. She said, “I just saw somebody with the fastest, sharpest mouth and mind.” By the way, you know, I’ll tell you: I know a lot with fast mouths, but they don’t have — And I said, “Let me take a look.” And I looked. And it was a long time ago already. You were really young. You’re young; you were really young. But we appreciate it. We appreciate everybody in this room. And people have made such progress and we’re making tremendous progress. You know, something that happened recently that the press doesn’t write about — but, every year a group of wonderful people from the black colleges and universities would come up to my office. A lot of people — 40, 35, 50 one year. And after the second year, I said, “How come you keep coming back?” And they came back for money, Deneen. Money. And I said, “Why do you have to come back? Other colleges have money. You don’t do — you don’t come back every year.” And one of the gentlemen, who is a great guy, from one of the schools — good school, very good school — he said, “We come back because we have to, because we need money. And we come back and other schools don’t have to because we — they want us to come back every single year. They want us to beg.” He used that word. “They want us to beg.” And I said — because I was . You know, it was the first year they came, and I didn’t think anything unusual. And the second year, and they come into the Oval Office and — a big group. I heard of almost every one of the colleges and universities. And after the third year, I said, “You know, you shouldn’t have to be coming and — while I’ll miss you if you don’t come — because they’re very good people — I said, “You should have a long-term deal. You shouldn’t have to come back in like this. This is demeaning to you.” He said, “It is. We love being in the Oval Office, but nobody has ever had us in the Oval Office before. But it is demeaning to us to come back.” And we just passed a bill where they’re all set. They got the money and it’s long-term. They don’t have to see me. I’ll miss them. I’ll miss them. And they’ll miss me. But you know what? Now they’re all set. And they have a long-term future. They were saying things like, “We can’t even fix up areas, even if we have the money because we’re not sure that the next President or even you are going to approve it next year. Maybe, for some reason, you’re not going to approve it.” So that’s one thing. And, you know, you’ve been hearing all about this, aand they’re very — they’re a big heart of this nation. That’s — they do a fantastic job. I got to know them a little bit and I said, “So, we’re going to fix that up for you and we’re going to do it.” And we did it — I don’t know what the length is, but it’s very long-term now. It’s 10 years. So I don’t know where I’m going to be in 10 years. I probably won’t be seeing them. But it was very — I thought it was very unfair. Now, the press isn’t going to write that and they’re not going to write a lot of the things that were said in this room today because they just choose not to. I don’t know why they choose not to, but so many nice things were said. We have tremendous media in this room. We have tremendous media no matter where I go, I guess. And I can honestly say that’s been true before I was President too, so I don’t know what it is. Someday, somebody will explain that to me, but that’s what it’s been. I guess that’s how I got to be President, to a certain extent. But they don’t explain those stories. They don’t explain Opportunity Zones, where Tim Scott, from South Carolina — he’ll be with me. I’m making a speech tomorrow — a rally. And sells out immediately; we have tremendous popularity in South Carolina. We’re going to go down. Some people have said I’m “trolling” the Democrats. And maybe I am. Because we did in Colorado; we did it in, you know, New Hampshire. We — no matter where we go — Iowa — no matter where we go, we have much bigger crowds. If one of the — Pocahontas has 2,000 people — 2,000 people. And they say, “Oh, what a crowd.” And I’ll have 15,000 people inside and — I tell you, you saw Colorado — we had 20-, 25,000 people outside and 12,000 people inside. They don’t say anything about the crowd. And the cameras don’t cover the crowds. My wife said, “How — how was it tonight?” And I said, “Great. Didn’t you see?” She said, “I heard it.” But they never go around to show the stadium. They never do. So we put it on the Internet. That’s the great thing with the Internet. But, as she said — but as I said, you can’t disguise 25,000 or 15,000 or whatever it is. You can’t disguise that. Because when you hear that sound, it sounds like an Ohio State football game, or an LSU or Alabama football game. So it’s pretty amazing. It’s pretty amazing. But they don’t talk about it. And yet, when a Joe Biden, who’s not sure what’s happening — but when he has an event, if he’s got a crowd of — a small crowd, just a small crowd — they’ll talk about how magnificent that was. And yet, we’ll have 25-, 30,000. We went to South Jersey — and they actually reported it, which was shocking — we had 175,000 requests for tickets. One hundred seventy-five thousand. And South Jersey is closed during the winter, essentially. I mean, people are opening up their hotels or opening up their homes. But we had 175,000 requests for tickets, and the place was just swamped with tens of thousands of people outside, and they don’t want to talk about it. The whole thing is sort of crazy. And I don’t get it because it’s so good for our country, what’s happening. And whether it’s black or white or any other group — Asian, because you see what’s happening with Asian; you see what’s happening with Hispanic — the best unemployment rates for every group. For very importantly, for black — the best unemployment we’ve ever had by far and getting better. And getting better. So we’ve set every record. Poverty numbers — the best you’ve ever had. The best we’ve ever had for a number of groups. But black people, right now, are having the best — statistically, the best numbers that you’ve ever had, and it’s really an honor. We have a situation with the virus. We’ve done a great job. The press won’t give us credit for it. We have — in a world that has some big problems — you look at China and you look at industry between the two countries. And I did something that had never been done before — because it had never been done before: I closed our borders to certain areas of the world. I won’t be specific, because it’s not nice to be spe- — you know, specific. But you understand where. And I closed the borders to certain areas of the world very early. We’d never closed a border before. We’ve never done that before. And flights coming in and people coming in — because they had a very early problem. And I closed them. I took a lot of heat from the Democrats. They said, “What’s he doing?” Because anything I do, they’ll do the opposite. Like with the wall. We want security in our country. If I would have said, “We will not build a wall,” they would have insisted. And I should have done that. I should have done that, David. If I did that, we wouldn’t have had no problem. Right, Jack? So I should have said — Yeah, you’re right. I should have said, “We will not have a wall.” And they would have insisted. I would have had the wall. We would have been perfect. But, anyway — but we’ve done an incredible job because we closed early. And actually, the Democrats said I was a racist. Not from black-people standpoint, but from Asian-people standpoint, from Chinese-people standpoint. They said I was a racist because I closed our country to people coming in from certain areas. They called me a racist. These people are really in trouble. I’ll tell you what: They’ve got problems. And now they say, “Oh…” We have 15 people in this country that, right now — and then we brought in 40 from — these were Americans that were in trouble way outside, near Japan. And we brought them in and they were in quarantine and they’re getting better. That was 40 or 42. We brought them in, which I felt we had to do. So they immediately said, “It jumped from 15 to an extra 40.” Headline. And everyone — no, we brought them in, Jack, because if we didn’t, I mean, we’re not going to let something happen. We had to do it. And I knew immediately that the press would add it and say this like it’s catastrophic, it’s ba- — but we’ve done a great job. Those people are all doing well. They’re doing very well. The 15 — of the 15, most of them are doing very well. One is quite sick, frankly. Most of them are doing really well. And the 15 will soon be down to 3 or 4 because we take them off the list as they get better and they’re recuperate. Like, if you had the flu, you recuperate. You get better. And they’re recuperating. But we’re — think of it: We’re at 15 people, and we would have been at many, many people had we not closed the border. So we don’t get credit for it. The press doesn’t write it. They wrote a story today — I gave a press conference last night that I thought was very good. It went very well. I know when it goes badly. I know better than anybody in the world if we say something — I know better than anybody. I mean, I don’t go around like Biden, where I’m in Ohio and I say, “Thank you very much, the people of Iowa.” And they start screaming at him, “No, no. You’re in Ohio.” This happens time after time. I don’t say, “We shot and killed 150 million people last year with guns” — which is exactly half of our population. And nobody talks about it. And then they say, Terrence, “Oh, it’s fine. He did wonderful tonight.” You know, that’s one of those things — not recoverable. If you say — as an example, I’m in New Hampshire and I say that I’m in Iowa, you’re dead. He gets away with it. If you say — if I ever said — or Jack, if I ever said that we have to do something about guns; last year we killed 150 million people. I guess he meant a tiny — you know, a lot; but still, a tiny, tiny fraction of that number. But if I ever said that, it may be career-threatening. But he said — I mean, you heard him. He said — in fact, when he said it, I said, “Man, that was a big mistake.” He was going to get — he didn’t get killed. They said, “He did very well tonight.” “He was fabulous tonight.” He said we killed 150 million people. He makes some gaffes. He makes some gaffes. He’s gaffe-prone. I’m actually not gaffe-prone. You know, if you think about it, I make these massive speeches. I’d say 70, 80 — you know, the best speeches are the ones where I’m not on teleprompter. But teleprompter does make it a little bit easier. But you know, I make them — I don’t make gaffes. I get no credit for it. I don’t get credit for these big crowds. I never get credit. But people are starting to figure it out because the job numbers are so good and things are so good. But what where have really done a great job, I think, was what happened over the last couple of weeks with this — and it just — you know, this is life. Things come up that you never even think about. Who would think that this was going to happen? You hear — it starts with a problem that they have in China. And you say, “That’s too bad.” And then it gets bigger and starts mushrooming. And then I closed the border. I said, “Just in case.” And we have 15 people instead of thousands of people. Okay? It could have been thousands of people. I said, “Just in case.” And we have 15 people instead of thousands of people. Okay? It could have been thousands of people. But we have 15 people who are almost all better now. But we do things. And it would be really nice if we could be recognized by the press fairly. And you know what? It would be really nice if we do something wrong, we get criticized by the press. But I gave a press conference yesterday that was really a very good press conference. And some people thought it was great and most of you people saw it. It was covered live. One of the advantages is that I get covered live all the time. And I like that better because they can’t chop it up and make it look — I’d rather be live. But it was a very good press conference. And basically it was a calming press conference. It was a conference to say we’re doing well. It was a conference where I took out the statistics, which were recently done from Johns Hopkins, which is one of the great places in the country, where it says the United States is the most prepared nation — think of that: “Countries best prepared to deal with a Pandemic.” So this was done by Johns Hopkins and it was put out. But they don’t cover it. They don’t cover it. The second is United Kingdom, then the Netherlands, Australia, Canada, Thailand, Sweden, Denmark, South Korea, Finland. Okay. So this is it. We’re number one. And then the Democrats go out — I see Schumer going out and these guys — just a talking point. Frankly, I may do it if I was them, okay? To be honest. I’ve been known to do this too. And they ask you, “How is he doing?” “Terribly. He’s doing terribly. It’s horrible. Horrible.” It’s so bad. And I did say yesterday — first time, because I understand politics. I think I’m pretty well — I’ve only been doing it for a few years — and I think, to the best of my knowledge, we’re in the White House. Right? But I know politics. And, you know, politics is fine. But when it comes time to talk about pandemics or whatever you may want to call it, you got to get away from politics. And the Schumers — Cryin’ Chuck and all of these people — they can’t — Nancy — you can’t go out and just say, “Terrible. It’s terrible.” We’re doing incredibly. Think of it: 15 people. Out of billions of people, 15 people. They’re getting better and soon they’re all going to better, hopefully. One is in very serious shape, and we understand that, and we understand it very well, but — but we also have the other group and they’re all getting better. So I think it’s an incredible achievement that our country has done. And one thing I have to pay tribute, we have — whether it’s Dr. Fauci — we have the best people on Earth. We have the most talented people on Earth. We’re giving whatever other countries need. We’re helping them. Sometimes it’s over phone; sometimes we’re sending people. But we have to run our country too. A lot of people say, “Why isn’t he in China?” Well, you know, China has to want that. And other places have — but they’re running it and they’re working very hard, I will tell you. And we’re in very constant communication — President Xi and myself. Very, very constant. But we are doing — and, by the way, their numbers seem to have maybe — they look like they’re coming down which, eventually, hopefully, that’s what’s supposed to happen. But it’s gone to other places and those numbers will come down. We’ve done an incredible job in this country and the professionals — and me, but forget me — I did one thing that a lot of people disagreed with, including many of the professionals: close the borders. Because they said it’s too serious a move. I took tremendous heat. Tremendous heat. It was called everything, including, David, “racist,” okay? I was called everything. And for a while, I said, “Maybe I shouldn’t have done that.” And now, it turned out to be great because we have so few people that have been affected. But, I just think it’s really important for the media to report stories accurately. And they don’t have to go overboard, but I’ll tell you, they shouldn’t go overboard the other way because they are trying to build this up and they are doing things and saying things that are absolutely crazy. And they are really hurting our country — the fake news media. And it’s not all fake, but much of it is. And they have to cover this very accurately. You know, it’s different than covering other things. This country is doing great. We are in a position that few countries would be in. And if we didn’t have the talent running this country — and all the way down, from top to bottom, the job that these doctors have done, the job that the professionals are doing. And we’re working with local hospitals, we’re working with the states all over the country. And, you know, I got criticized because I said $2.5 billion. That’s a lot of money. See, $2.5 billion is a lot of money. And the Democrats said, “How dare he only ask for $2.5 billion?” But this never happened to me before. Usually, I ask for $2.5 billion, and they said, “We’re going to give you 10 cents.” And I asked for $2.5 billion. My people came, “This is what we need: $2.5 billion.” And I said, “That’s a lot. That’s a lot of money.” Because, you know, if you’re in business and you say, “$2.5 billion,” — what I can build for $2.5 billion — what I can do for that, Deneen. So what happens is, Schumer says, “He needs $8.5 [billion].” You know what I said, Jack? I said, “I’ll take it if you want to give it to me.” I thought, you know, I’ll ask for a lot, and if I get a piece — So I they criticized me because they say “$2.5 billion, he needs more.” What they should do is say, “Why does he need so much?” But they don’t say that because they have inverse thinking. But the way they make you look bad is to say, “How dare he only ask…” Think of that: “How dare he only ask for $2.5 billion. We demand that he take $8.5 [billion.]” I’ll accept $8.5 [billion]. I’ll take it if they — because this never happened to me before. All my life, I ask, and I get a piece of it. But the Democrats are screaming, “How dare he do that?” And they’re not doing a good job; we’re doing a great job. While they’re working on impeachment, we were working on doing this because we were hearing about it while they were wasting the country’s time and the world’s time, talking about the impeachment hoax. And they got shut out, except for one very foolish, frankly, not a very good senator. A man who got in on a false premise and he’s not very popular in his own state. And I guess I got half of it. I say “52.” We got 52 and half out of 53 votes, right? But he’s not a very popular guy, I can tell you. A lot of people aren’t liking him too much. And he shouldn’t have done what he did. But we did nothing wrong. So we had to work through an impeachment hoax. That’s what they were doing. In the meantime, we had already started preparing because we started hearing rumors. We are so prepared like we never have been prepared. Now, they’ll come up with a certain amount of money — whether it’s two and a half, I’ll be satisfied with that; whether it’s eight and a half, we’ll take that too. And we’ll have a lot money left over, and we’ll do a great job. We’ll probably do about the same job. But I just want to say, this is really above politics. They have to take — it’s easy for, you know, Schumer. “What kind of a job do you think they’re doing?” He should say, “They’ve done a great job.” And you know what? He’d actually pick up votes. People would respect him for that. Instead, “What kind of job…” “They’re doing a terrible job.” He has no idea. We had a trade deal. I talked about it a little bit yesterday. A phenomenal deal with China. Billions and billions of dollars of worth is going to come into our country. Many billions of dollars. It’s a great deal. And they went to Schumer and they went to others. Talking points. They went to the Democrats and they said, “What do you think of the deal?” “Oh, it’s terrible. Terrible.” They didn’t even know what the deal was. In fact, he said, “They took off the tariffs. They didn’t want the tariffs.” I put the tariffs on when he thought I took them off. We didn’t. We have $250 billion. Look at it. We get 25 percent on $250 billion, then we get more above that. And I left them on. People said, “That’s amazing.” But the Democrats didn’t know that. They said, “He took off the tariffs.” And you know what? They got killed. But the press doesn’t report that. So the natural instinct — and again, I should say, I do it too. They’ll ask me and, you know, you do it too. I guess it’s a natural political instinct. But when they say, “What kind of deal is it?” “Terrible. Terrible. Terrible.” And people get it. With what we’re talking about now with the virus, we can’t do that. We have to do it differently. If we’re doing a great job, we should congratulate these professionals that are the best in the world. And you know what? If we were doing a bad job, we should also be criticized. But we have done an incredible job. We’re going to continue. It’s going to disappear. One day — it’s like a miracle — it will disappear. And from our shores, we — you know, it could get worse before it gets better. It could maybe go away. We’ll see what happens. Nobody really knows. The fact is, the greatest experts — I’ve spoken to them all. Nobody really knows. But we have done and our professionals have done a fantastic job. We’re working with other countries. We’re trying to help some other countries. A couple of them have gotten hit pretty hard. South Korea and Italy, in particular. They’ve been hit pretty hard. And it’ll all work out. And I just want to thank all of the people that have worked with us in government and some of these great professionals because they have been incredible — the job. To think of it — with all of what you see going on — 15 people. We brought in the others, but — and they’re doing good. But 15 people is almost, I would say, a miracle. Also, what I want to do, though, is I want to thank the black people of America. Because, frankly, you people, what you’ve gone through over the years, and now you’re making a comeback like you’ve never — and I had a phrase — I had a phrase during speeches, during rallies, and I’d use it whenever I saw, whenever we had a lot of black people in there, okay? And I have to say, I’d go through a list: You had the worst crime. You had the lowest housing ownership. You had — and I’d read 10, 15, 20 points. And, look, a couple of them — NBC just left because they don’t want to hear this because they don’t want — . She just left. No, she just left, from NBC — because it’s owned by Comcast. And they’re the racists because they’re . But I know this. I mean, she . As I’m talking, I’m looking at her, she’s not writing anything down because she knows she’s not going to report any of this. She only wants to report something bad and there’s nothing bad in this room. What’s going on in this room is incredible. But when you look — when you look at what’s happening — and I used to use the expression, “What do you have to lose?” It was much more effective when I said, “What the hell do you have to lose?” — which I did a lot, but some people said it’s a bad word. Okay? If somebody else said it, it’s okay. If I say it, it’s a bad word. But it was much more — when I said, “What the hell…” They talked about it. You have tremendous crime. Tremendous lack of ownership. The worst schools. The worst this. I read, like — right? — 10 points. And one day I’m saying — you know, I had that on the teleprompter, which are always a little boring. But here I’m reading these points and I’m looking at the audience, I said — it wasn’t like written. I said, “The Democrats have ruled for 110 years. And you have all these horrible statistics.” I said, “Vote for me. What the hell do you have to lose?” You know, I came off the stage. And my people said, “Sir, that was quite disrespectful.” I said, “It was true.” So I said, “What do you have to lose?” So now you look what Tim Scott has done with the Opportunity Zones. I mean, those Opportunity Zones are incredible. Your colleges and universities that we’ve just talked about. So many things. But criminal justice reform — this guy walked in. Jared. People could not get it approved. Obama couldn’t get it approved. And nobody could get it approved. And I had to call in a lot of chips because we needed some very conservative Republicans to get this approved. And yet, we had some very — we had Mike Lee. We had Ted Cruz. We had guys that were already onto it. It’s one of the reasons — I said, “Whoa.” But Chuck Grassley was already there. And I said, “That’s incredible that you have some of our toughest, most conservative people already there.” And I was able to get other people, plus we were able to get it through, and it was a great achievement. And I want to thank Jared, because Jared came in and said . And just to finish, though, I’ll tell you why people tend not to do things. Normally, people would be happy with that and the people that know are. You know better than anybody, Alveda, because you are sitting next to us and she’s the one. But — and you heard this story maybe. Van Jones was in my office, almost in tears — and he was actually in tears — asking for help. And I think that’s good. I think that’s noble and that’s a good thing. And he was there because of Jared. And there was a group, and they were saying, “It’s dead. We’re five short.” And a couple of the ones that were not against us — “we’re going to delay the bill” — and then it goes to asunder, right? It’s goes to ashes. When you delay it for a period of time it’s, you know, they were going to do things to delay it. Very easily to do — very easy to do. I got them to be good. I didn’t get their vote; I didn’t need their vote. But they were great because they didn’t delay it. And, I mean, they were going to filibuster the bill so it would’ve gone on and on. And then, it would have just gone away, and people say, “Hey, everybody has to go home. We have to start this again.” And they didn’t do that. They were great. And we got the votes necessary. We got it done. Nobody else could have done it, in this case, but me. Nobody else could have done it. And Jared came in and he said, “You’re the only one.” And I got it done. He felt it was so important. And I was getting mixed reviews. Now, I’m getting tremendous reviews. But some of the people that didn’t vote for it, they’re saying, “I wish we voted for criminal justice reform.” So Van Jones is up making a speech. I said to my wife, “Come. This will be going to be very nice. Look.” He’s on MSDNC, right? The station. All right? Do you ever hear that one: “MSDNC”? No, it’s a natural — right? That’s a natural. The worst. I mean, these people. I’ll tell you what: NBC is worse, in my opinion, than CNN. They’re worse. They’re absolute bad people. And they paid me a lot of money and I made them a lot of money with “The Apprentice.” They paid me a lot of money over the years. And I can’t believe it. They’re just bad — they’re bad people. They’re really bad people. And they don’t report the truth. And neither does CNN. And neither does a lot of the media. But — so Van Jones is on there. I say to my wife, “This is going to be great to watch. Let’s watch this. He’s going to be so nice to us, because without me…” So he wanted to thank the Reverend Al Sharpton. And then he went through a list of many people. He went through a list of many people. He went through a list — he didn’t mention your name either, by the way. He didn’t mention anybody in this room. But — and, by the way, maybe people in this room, maybe he wasn’t aware. Maybe, you know — but he went through a list of people that I never heard of. And he said, at the end — it was the end of the show, which I think nobody watched because I don’t think — is the show still on? I don’t think so. But it was the end of the how and he thanked a whole lot of people. I said to my wife, “He never thanked me.” That’s why I talk about it. You know why? Because I don’t talk about it, people aren’t going to know. I said to my wife, “Nobody could have done it. President Obama couldn’t do it. Bush couldn’t do it. Nobody could do it but me. I got it done.” I’m good at getting things approved. I’m very good at this. Like you’re good at things, I’m good at things. He’s good at football. This is guy is good at — I never to follow him speaking. Right? I’ll ask Scott. But I got it done. And he didn’t mention my name. But I’ll tell you what he did do. At the end of the show, he mentioned all of these names. And then he said, “Now, look, we have one thing we have to do this year. We have to defeat this President of the United States. And you go out, and we have to defeat this President of the United States.” I never forgot it. That was a few months ago. I will never forget it. It’s — I have the great memory of all times. I will never forget that because it was bad and very, very — it very terrible. Not mentioning my name was bad. It’s not that I want — I get enough publicity. But you know what? This was an important thing. To my family, it was an important thing. I mean, this guy worked so hard on getting that done and he didn’t even mention — or your name, by the way. But he didn’t mention our name. We were like nothing. We were like nothing. And I know how some of you feel. You do things and you don’t get mentioned. Okay? But it’s the same thing. But then, on top, the indignity of saying, “We must now focus on one thing. We must defeat this President of the United States.” And then the show ended. My wife said, “That wasn’t too good, was it?” It’s a disgrace. So I just want to thank everyone. You’re a very special people to me, and I really do appreciate your being here. And all of this — you know, these stars, I hope you’re making a hell of a lot of money. Because I’ll lose billions of dollars. I’m doing — I lose a fortune between what I don’t do and what it costs me. You know what my legal fees are? Tens of millions of dollars. I spend tens of millions of dollars on legal fees, defending myself against scum because they’re scum. And then they say I get rich on this. If a man from an Arab country goes into one of my hotels, they say, “Trump is getting rich.” They don’t realize I don’t even take foreign — if somebody gets in, you lose billions of dollars, but if a person rents a hotel room for 300 bucks, it’s like a major event. These are very dishonest people. Hopefully, out of all of this, the press will become much more honest. There’s no other word — “honest.” And if they do, we have achieved something that will be great. But we have our press, because — — our press is the Internet. Our press is being with you. Our press is — as much as they hate all of us, I guess — but they can’t put the cameras — although I did notice the one that did leave was NBC, which is pretty pathetic. But we’re going to go into another room. We’re going to celebrate because we have a whole group of people. I want to thank the people at this table. You’ve been so incredible. And beyond this table — where is she? She’s back there. She’s — I don’t know what happened. She is so great. Thank you, honey. I’m pointing at you. These big guys are standing right — these great photographers are in front of you. But I want to thank you all because you’ve been fantastic. Yes, go ahead. One second. We’ll do this. You’re going to have a lot. This could be overturned easily. We need that four years because, you know, I say it’s like a tree. You plant it, but takes a while to grab root. When this grabs root, they’re not going to be able to destroy . Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you everybody. We’re going over now. We’re going over to the East Room. Yes, what? Well, I think the press has been really out of line. And I think they’re also very worried that, you know, we’re going to be running against somebody. And they see these characters up onstage and, you know, anything can happen in an election. And they see these people. And if any of these people ever did happen to assume the presidency, you would have a crash like you’ve never seen before. And I think the market is also putting that into the equation. But the virus — we’re doing a very professional job. We have the best people. Our Vice President is working very hard. We have tremendous people involved. And we’re doing — as I said, we’re at 15 people and they’re getting better. We have one that’s quite ill. We got them late. And — but we have a country that’s pulling together and pulling together really well. I think the Democrats should not try and make this — or the Republicans — should not make this a political issue. This is above politics. Again, we closed the borders very early. We didn’t let certain regions of the world come in. By doing that, we really saved a lot. We made a great decision. I took a lot of heat over that decision, but it turned out to be the right decision. And that’s why we’re at 15, and other places have many more. So I just want to thank you, and thank the media too. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. We love you. Thank you very much, everybody. I want to just — first of all, a person that’s doing an unbelievable job — loves everybody in this room. She’s got tremendous heart. She’s been through a lot and she handles it better than anybody I know: our great First Lady. And she — — she heard you were all here, so she just wanted to come down and say hello. And we just want to thank you, honey, because you’ve done an incredible job. You love this country and we appreciate it too. Okay? Well, thank you. And we’re thrilled to welcome you to the White House as we proudly celebrate African American History Month. In every generation, African Americans have enriched our culture, deepened our faith, strengthened our community, sustained our values, raised up our conscience, and called our nation to greatness. And that’s exactly what’s happened and it’s incredible and people are really starting to recognize it. We’re pleased to be joined today by — Ben Carson is around here someplace. Where’s Ben? A friend of mine and an incredible — he’s doing an incredible job. Alex Azar — and he’s working very hard on a thing called the virus. How’s it going? Do you have anything to report to us, Alex? Do you want to come up and talk about it? Come up for a second, Alex. Come on. We might as well learn something about — it’s a hot topic. Come on. You got a lot of press back there, Alex. Good luck. Go ahead. Thank you very much. Yeah, really, we’re doing well. We have incredible professionals like Alex and we appreciate it very much. Say hello to everybody over there, Alex. I appreciate it. Steve Mnuchin, from a place called Treasury. Where is Steve? Hi, Steve. Hi, Steve. Hi, Steve. And a person who has done a fantastic job, incredible job — Small Business Administrator Jovita Carranza. I see you there. Surgeon General Jerome Adams. Jerome. And Jared Kushner, who you know. Jared has done a great job on criminal justice reform. Jared did a fantastic job. Thank you very much, Jared. From the very beginning of our republic, African American heroes poured out their blood, sweat, heart, and soul to protect American freedom and to realize our founding promise that we are all made equal by the hand of Almighty God, right? The very first person to give his life in our nation’s struggle for independence was an African American patriot, Crispus Attucks. You know that? Did you know that? Black soldiers fought beneath the Star Spangled Banner at Fort McHenry and gave their lives to eradicate slavery in the Civil War. And that was some fight. At Pearl Harbor, it was an African American sailor, Doris Miller, who was among the first to return enemy fire. Last month, the Navy announced that the next American aircraft carrier will bear the proud name of “USS Doris Miller.” That’s pretty good. They won’t give me that honor. That’s a big boat. That’s a big ship. All right. One day, maybe. But then, in the meantime — — you’re right. One day, maybe. That’s — congratulations, that really is a big deal. Aircraft carrier. Doesn’t get bigger than that. It’s going to be one of the biggest ships in the world. Hundreds of thousands of courageous African Americans defend our flag today. We are proudly and profoundly grateful to be joined by several members of the United States military this evening. We salute your tireless devotion and all of the great work you do for our nation. We want to thank you very much. It’s incredible, the job you do. Thank you all very much — military people. Also with us is a young — very young, frankly — handsome man that I just met: 15-year old Alphonso Hill. He’s an Eagle Scout from Hubert, North Carolina. I’ll be going to North Carolina soon. Where is he? Last year, Alphonso decided he wanted to build a flagpole for his church to honor all of those who have served our military. At the base is a plaque dedicated to our warriors. It says, “Thank you for yesterday and thank you for the days to come.” That’s — that’s pretty good. Did you write that, up Al- — where is Alphonso? Come on up here, Alphonso. We want to thank you for the incredible job you’ve done. Come on up. Say a few words. Good-looking guy. Thank you. Good job. He’ll be in politics someday, right? You might be standing here someday. That’s great. Thank you, Alphonso. Beautiful job. Thank you very much. All those medals he’s got. Wow. Impressive. We have a man who makes pillows. Did you ever hear of this guy? He makes pillows. And I don’t know, for whatever reason, he just — I do like his pillows, but I don’t think that’s — but he’s been such a great supporter, especially in Minnesota, where he runs Minnesota now for us. He’s the guy — so if I lose Minnesota, we shouldn’t — I can blame you. I’ll say, “Never buy one of…” — Huh? One of the great, great — and, by the way, thank you for everything. We really appreciate it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you, man. He’s doing a good job. Built a — started from nothing, with a small company, and now he does — what are your sales now? That’s fantastic. That’s fantastic. And putting a lot of people to work, too. Sixteen hundred. Sixteen hundred in Minnesota. Fantastic job. Fantastic. That’s a good product too, by the way. Thank you. Proud of you. As a token of our gratitude, I’d like to give Alphonso a special gift that we can have him take back to his church. Can we do that, Alphonso? It’s a flag flown on board Marine One. And we’re going to get that flag and I want to thank you, throughout our history, all of the great work that African Americans have done. Alphonso, you’ve battled for equality and justice and liberty and we really do revere all of the great fighters. He’s going to be another one, I can see it. Did you ever hear of Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks, Martin Luther King, and Thurgood Marshall? And this may be the next one. Although I think, Alphonso, we have a lot of people in the in au- — in the offing right here. We have a lot of people that might beat you to it, but you’ll be there someday. I’ll bet you are. Come on over here, Alphonso. That’s pretty good, huh? He’ll be here. It’s only a question: Will somebody be there first, right? It’s a lot of people. You know, we have some. I think I’m going to read out some of the names because they’ve been incredible. You know, Kay Coles James who’s been incredible. Where is Kay? She’s been so great and I appreciate it. Herman Cain — the great Herman Cain. Where is he? Herman Cain. What a great man he is and a great friend. He was leading for the — in the presidential race a few years ago — not so long ago. And he had a tax plan “9-9-9”. Did anybody ever hear — — and, man, did that capture everybody’s attention. Nobody knew what it meant, but that’s okay. It worked. Herman Cain. Alveda King. And she’s now — — she is now with her great — I say “relative” but, really, essentially, it’s, as far as we’re concerned, it’s your daughter. That’s your daughter. That’s what we’re saying. And I want to congratulate you, Angela. Okay? Angela, congratulations. We just gave Angela a pardon and she’s going to lead the greatest life, right? And she has somebody on her side named Alveda. And you can’t get a better reference, I’ll tell you that. A friend of mine, he’s a pastor but he’s one of the toughest human beings I’ve ever seen. I think he’s almost too tough to be a pastor, but we won’t say. And I used to watch him rip apart the CNN people. Now, they won’t put him on anymore because they didn’t win. They only put people on that say bad stuff. But he would take people or — I mean, he’s just very legit. He’s an incredible guy. He’s an unbelievable person to have as a friend. Pastor Darrell Scott. Where is he? Where is he? Yep. Thank you, Pastor. Great guy. Somebody that’s incredible that’s really become popular, become a real star in so many ways: Candace Owens. Where is Candace? Where is our Candace? Thanks, Candace. She’s something. Terrence Williams, are you here? Terrence. Oh, Terrence. I watched him the other night. Oy-yi-yi, I felt so sorry for the other side. Two people that I hope are making a fortune because they deserve it. Huh? Are they making a lot? Diamond and Silk. They’re great people. First Lady said — five years ago now, can you believe it? — said, “You have to watch. There’s two people on the Internet. They’re unbelievable.” I said, “I don’t want to watch two people on the Internet.” She said, “Please.” You know, she said, “You go to watch.” That means you have to watch, right? And I watched. That was the first time I saw them. I said, “They’re going to be stars.” And they have been — just been incredible. And they’ve been with me for — almost before I even announced. They were there right at the beginning. Thank you both very much. It’s a great honor. And Ben Caron’s incredible wife, Candy, thank you for being here. Thank you. A friend of Pastor Darrell, a friend of mine: Kareem Lanier. Where are — where is Kareem? Kareem. Yeah, thank you, Kareem. Kareem is our good man. And, Angela, thank you for being here. That’s — enjoy your life. Somebody that’s on television speaking so well, so brilliant, so sharp, and she’s on our side: Deneen Borelli. Deneen, where are you? Thanks, Deneen. You — you speak the word. It’s incredible. When you’re there, nobody plays games with you, right? Thank you very much. David Harris, Jr. became very famous. He walks through an airport and he’s an Internet sensation, right? I don’t know, you’ll have to tell us about that. Thank you, David. Robert Smith. Robert, thank you. Thank you, Robert. Somebody that is really — somebody that I just have liked from the beginning. He’s — he was with us from the beginning. I didn’t know him from the beginning, but he was there. And nobody speaks more beautifully, nobody says it more beautifully: Paris Dennard. Paris. Thank you, Paris. Where is Paris? He’s there. Thank you. Thank you, Paris. Thank you. Thank you. What a job. You’re getting close to your people back there, . You’re getting per- — Paris, thank you very much. Is CNN back there? I can’t see them. A man who is a great fighter, who I’ve watched over the years — I like the fights. And he won, I think, 42 fights and lost very few. He had great speed. I’m larger than him, but I said, “Do you think I could take you in a fight?” And he looked at me and he goes, “Is he serious?” And I agree with what the said. Andre Berto. Where is Andre? Andre? Great, job, Andre. He’s got a lot of wins. Forty-two wins. Forty-two wins. That’s a lot, right? It’s a lot of fighting. And he’s sharp as a tack. Jack Brewer, a great player. Where is Jack? A great NFL player. Jack, thank you. And I loved what you said before. I don’t know if they were listening — the media. They don’t want to hear those words, Jack, you know. But what you said — — I know they are, and I appreciate you saying them too. But you — really, that was beautiful. And where is Derrick Gradenigo? Derrick, what you said — so beautiful. We won’t forget it. Thank you, Derrick. Thank you, Derrick. Marc Little is here. Marc, thank you. Thank you, Marc. Thank you, Marc. Bruce LeVell. He really had a spell. He had a spell. Thank you, Bruce. Boy, you did a job. They turned those cameras off so fast. And somebody that really is special and an incredible woman: Stacy Washington. Thank you, Stacy. And Katrina is around here someplace. Where is Katrina? Where is she? Where is she? She’s been — she’s been there from the beginning. Almost from before the beginning. In 1955, one champion of civil rights was a student taking a train from Nashville to Houston when the conductor ordered her to leave the seat immediately because of the color of her skin, if you can believe that. Gertrude Jane Holliday Stone refused. Her belongings were stolen and she was threatened with arrest, but she — she just sat and she defied this horrible order and grave injustice. She did not give up her seat. She wouldn’t give it up. And I just met her, by the way, and I say, they had a lot of problems. They had a lot of problems. They weren’t going to win that. Later in life, Gertrude went on to integrate a major department store, she became the first African American to chair the Houston Public Library Board, and she is here with us today. She’s an incredible woman, an incredible success, and a nice person. Gertrude Jane, America is forever in your debt and we appreciate your being here. Please come up. Please come up and say a few words. Gertrude. Come on up. And her son — her loving son. That’s very nice. Thank you very much. Please. Very inspirational. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Wait, let me take you back. Beautiful woman. Thank you very much. Thanks, Gertrude. The African American community has made every aspect of our national lives richer, better, and brighter. This week, we remember the renowned NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson, who recently passed away at the age of 101. Right? Great, great woman. Our nation will forever honor her soaring legacy in helping American astronauts to win the war on space. And we’re just doing now another — we’re doing the space, you know, we’re going to be heading to space because that’s where it’s at now. And we have to do that and we’re going to have another branch of the United States military. So we have Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines. We have Coast Guard. And we have now — I just call it “Space.” That’s what we want. We want “Space.” And that’s where it’s at. That’s where it’s at, in terms of so many other things. And we’re also — we’ll be heading to the Moon soon. We’re going to have our first female on the Moon. And then, from the Moon, I don’t know if people know this, you have to — you need to land on the Moon in order to go to Mars. It’s a launching pad for Mars. So it’s going to be great. But we’re really doing tremendous things at NASA. Brilliant scientists, scholars, lawyers, and inventors, from George Washington Carver to Marie Daly to Clarence Thomas — and by the way, Clarence Thomas, who I really know well — incredible, man. He’s an incredible man. Incredible man. I was introducing people and they were saying, “Who’s your favorite member of the Supreme Court?” It is a big group — 4-or 5,000 people. And Clarence — I said, “Clarence Thomas is great.” This was two years ago. The place went crazy. I’ve never forgotten. Every time I see him, I tell him that story. And he always likes that story. But they went — they went wild. They love him. But they’ve improved society for all Americans. The artistic genius of icons like Ella Fitzgerald, Sammy Davis — who I knew a little bit; he was a wild man. I won’t tell the stories about Sammy because there’s too much. Billie Holiday. They transformed American music, right? Millions around the world have been inspired by towering legends like Jesse Owens, Jackie Robinson, Muhammad Ali, Jim Brown, and Tiger Woods — who just got the Presidential Medal. You saw that. Just got it recently, a few months ago. Incredible guy. Recently, our entire nation was saddened by the tragic death of Kobe Bryant and his 13-year-old, beautiful daughter. Kobe was one of the greatest competitors of all time. I’ll tell you, I watched him play a lot of basketball. He was incredible. Just incredible and respected. Our nation continues to hold his family in our hearts and prayers. In every field, every generation, and every calling, African Americans have lifted up our nation to new heights and, like all citizens, you’re entitled to a government that puts your needs, your interests, and your families first. And that’s what we’re doing. We’re doing that for everyone. Our country is doing so well. We’ll get this one problem — it just shows you what can happen. Everything can be perfect, and then you hear, “Gee, there’s a bug. There’s a flu. There’s a virus. They didn’t know what it was in China.” And I said, “Uh oh. That doesn’t sound good.” And, fortunately, we made the early moves and we closed our borders and it was a big thing. But I will say that things happen in life that are — if they would have said, “What are — give me 10 bad things that you think could happen,” that wouldn’t have been on the list, right? But you never know. But it’s working out very professionally. We’re doing a tremendous job and our people are doing a tremendous job. We have the greatest experts in the world. Our nation is in the midst of the great American comeback. That’s what it is. In just over three years, we’ve created 7 million brand-new jobs — something that would have been unthinkable to even say. I wouldn’t have been able to get away with it. They would have stopped me. They would have said, “That’s not realistic. You’re exaggerating.” I would have never said “7 million” because even I didn’t think we could reach that number — 7 million new jobs. We’ve created 1.3 million new jobs for African Americans. Black American unemployment has reached an all-time low in the history of our country. It’s the best — best we’ve ever done. Black youth unemployment has reached a record low. African American poverty rate has plummeted to the lowest level in the history of our country. These are good numbers. I don’t know. I mean, I should be at 100 percent. I hate to tell you, right? No, we have incredible — Wages for African American workers have increased by $2,400 per year. That’s a record increase. Young people nationwide have seen their wages increase by more than 10 percent. My administration is fighting for the great jobs, great schools, great healthcare, and truly great future for African Americans and for all Americans. And we’re doing it in record numbers. We signed legislation that achieved permanent funding for historically black colleges and universities. And I just told the story to a group that were in the Oval Office. Most of them, I think, are here, I think, for the most part. But every year from the time I’m — you know, I’m now here, can you believe it, more than three years? How time flies. I first came here and I stood with my wife — and right opposite the Lincoln Bedroom — it was the first night. And I said, “Do you believe this? This is unbelievable.” And then, all of a sudden, time flies and now you’re more than three years. And now I have to get people working so that we win Minnesota, right? You’ll do it. But, but time does fly. And, you know, when you look at what’s going on — the incredible things that we’ve done for everybody — it’s been really — it’s been really — I don’t like to say a “miracle” because it’s something I always said we could do, but it’s been pretty incredible for everybody. And I think maybe even especially for the people in this room, because you’ve really been big beneficiaries of people that are smart. You know, a very special senator from South Carolina — you know this. You know who I’m talking about? Tim. Right? Tim Scott. He came to me with an idea for a thing called “Opportunity Zones.” And — and he said — and, you know, over the years, they’ve had many of these. They’ve had many different ideas. They have ideas. And so — they never work. And I liked the idea. And I said, “Let’s see if we could do it, Tim.” We got it passed. It went through Congress. And they are employing thousands and thousands of people. And they’re taking areas that were — there was no investment. And people are putting money into those areas, and jobs are being created. And Opportunity Zones is — a lot of people aren’t talking about it, but Opportunity Zones are one of the great things that have happened to the black community, to a lot of communities, when you think. But I would say the biggest beneficiary is the black, Hispanic community. It’s been an incredible success and I’m very proud of it. I’m very proud of Tim Scott for bringing it to me. And I’m glad I said I liked that idea. You never know. You know, you try things and sometimes they work and sometimes they don’t work as well. But this has been one of the great stories — the whole thing with the Opportunity Zones. So it’s been really incredible. And the other thing that’s been a great story is criminal justice reform. And, as you know, they’ve been trying to — it was — it’s been very unjust. Maybe a real spokesman or person, you might say — in the old days, you’d say “spokesman,” now you say “spokeswoman” or “spokesperson” — but Alice Johnson, who’s been — — she was in jail for 22 years. And she was in jail for — think of it — 22 years and she had a long time to go — almost 20 years to go — for something that was just not a fair situation. And she admits — she said, “Oh, she shouldn’t have made a phone call…” and something. But 22 years. And she’s an incredible — and she’s actually recommended — I said, “How many people are like you in the prison?” And she said — she said, “Quite a few.” I said, “Are they all innocent?” “No.” I’m glad she that. She said, “No, some are very bad.” I said, “Good. So at least you’re not just saying everybody’s perfect, right?” She said, “No, some are very bad.” But she said, “You have a lot of people that are great people that were treated very unfairly.” So we have criminal justice reform that was done — which is really most helpful — by far, frankly — to the black community. And it’s something that was a great honor. Jared Kushner, who stands right over here, he was pushing it very hard. He was pushing it very hard. Late at night I’d get calls about criminal justice reform. I’d say, “What’s that, please?” And he was explaining about fairness and unfairness. We understand what fairness — I get treated unfairly, too. We all get treated unfair. And all we have to do — you know when you get treated unfairly, you know what you have to do? Just keep winning. Win, win, win. Right? Keep winning. That’s what you’ve been doing. That’s what you’ve been doing. So we got criminal justice reform done. So many things. It was just incredible. I was going to tell you before — the black colleges, universities — so every year, they’d come to see me. And they’d come up, and they’d say, “Hello.” I say, “Good.” Then, after two years, I said, “Huh. Why are they coming back? That’s strange.” And I said, “Why are you coming back?” “Well, we have to because we don’t have funding. We have to come back every year and ask for it.” He said, “I feel like a beggar.” This is the dean of a great school. And I said, “I understand that.” And I sort of let it go. And then the next year, they came in — not so long ago. And I think it was about 35 people — the heads of the school, the top people at these different schools. Many of them I knew. Great schools — Howard, a lot of great schools. And I said, “You’re back.” The same man. I said, “You’re back.” And he said, “Yeah, we’re back. We’re back begging for money.” I said, “You shouldn’t have to do this. Not fair.” And I had passed legislation that takes care of your historically black colleges and universities for the long term so you don’t have to come back. Thanks. And Ben Carson helped me a lot, I have to say. Right, Ben? Ben Carson. I said, “Take off your housing hat for a little while. We have to take care of this.” And the only bad thing — I said, “I’m not going to see you people anymore. I won’t see you coming up to the White House every year.” But they appreciated it, and nobody could have got it done but us. I’ll say “us” because I’m trying to be modest, you know. I want to be modest. But nobody could have gotten that done but us. And it’s a great thing. They do an incredible job. Such an important job. Every day, I will not rest, I will not stop, I will never give up until we’ve delivered equal and abundant opportunity to every neighborhood all across our land. Together, we will bring hope to every family, justice to every citizen, and pride to every loyal American heart. Because of your courage and your devotion, we will make America stronger and safer and prouder and freer and greater than it ever was before. And I just want to congratulate the black community because what you’ve done and the progress you’ve made over the last three years is also record setting. It’s record setting. There’s never been anything like it. And the word is out. You know, the word is out. People know. People know what we’ve done all together. But I just want to thank you all. You’re really — incredible job you’ve done. You go back a long time, this country would not be this country without the incredible job that your ancestors have done, that you’ve done, and you can be very proud of it. You can be very proud of it. So, I want to say thank you and God bless you all. God bless you all. We’re with you all the way. Thank you.